<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta name="generator" content=
"HTML Tidy for Linux (vers 19 September 2007), see www.w3.org" />
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content=
"text/html; charset=us-ascii" />
<meta name="Generator" content="Microsoft Word 12 (filtered)" />
<title>Warbreaker 4.2</title>

<style type="text/css">
/*<![CDATA[*/
<!--
 /* Font Definitions */
 @font-face
        {font-family:Helvetica;
        panose-1:2 11 5 4 2 2 2 2 2 4;}
@font-face
        {font-family:Courier;
        panose-1:2 7 4 9 2 2 5 2 4 4;}
@font-face
        {font-family:"Tms Rmn";
        panose-1:2 2 6 3 4 5 5 2 3 4;}
@font-face
        {font-family:Helv;
        panose-1:2 11 6 4 2 2 2 3 2 4;}
@font-face
        {font-family:"New York";
        panose-1:2 4 5 3 6 5 6 2 3 4;}
@font-face
        {font-family:System;
        panose-1:0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0;}
@font-face
        {font-family:Wingdings;
        panose-1:5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0;}
@font-face
        {font-family:"MS Mincho";
        panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 2 5 8 3 4;}
@font-face
        {font-family:Batang;
        panose-1:2 3 6 0 0 1 1 1 1 1;}
@font-face
        {font-family:SimSun;
        panose-1:2 1 6 0 3 1 1 1 1 1;}
@font-face
        {font-family:PMingLiU;
        panose-1:2 1 6 1 0 1 1 1 1 1;}
@font-face
        {font-family:"MS Gothic";
        panose-1:2 11 6 9 7 2 5 8 2 4;}
@font-face
        {font-family:Dotum;
        panose-1:2 11 6 0 0 1 1 1 1 1;}
@font-face
        {font-family:SimHei;
        panose-1:2 1 6 0 3 1 1 1 1 1;}
@font-face
        {font-family:MingLiU;
        panose-1:2 1 6 9 0 1 1 1 1 1;}
@font-face
        {font-family:Mincho;
        panose-1:2 2 6 9 4 3 5 8 3 5;}
@font-face
        {font-family:Gulim;
        panose-1:2 11 6 0 0 1 1 1 1 1;}
@font-face
        {font-family:Century;
        panose-1:2 4 6 3 5 7 5 2 3 3;}
@font-face
        {font-family:"Angsana New";
        panose-1:2 2 6 3 5 4 5 2 3 4;}
@font-face
        {font-family:"Cordia New";
        panose-1:2 11 3 4 2 2 2 2 2 4;}
@font-face
        {font-family:Mangal;
        panose-1:0 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0;}
@font-face
        {font-family:Latha;
        panose-1:2 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0;}
@font-face
        {font-family:Sylfaen;
        panose-1:1 10 5 2 5 3 6 3 3 3;}
@font-face
        {font-family:Vrinda;
        panose-1:0 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0;}
@font-face
        {font-family:Raavi;
        panose-1:2 0 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0;}
@font-face
        {font-family:Shruti;
        panose-1:2 0 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0;}
@font-face
        {font-family:Sendnya;
        panose-1:0 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0;}
@font-face
        {font-family:Gautami;
        panose-1:2 0 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0;}
@font-face
        {font-family:Tunga;
        panose-1:0 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0;}
@font-face
        {font-family:"Estrangelo Edessa";
        panose-1:0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0;}
@font-face
        {font-family:"Cambria Math";
        panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4;}
@font-face
        {font-family:"Arial Unicode MS";
        panose-1:2 11 6 4 2 2 2 2 2 4;}
@font-face
        {font-family:Cambria;
        panose-1:2 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4;}
@font-face
        {font-family:Calibri;
        panose-1:2 15 5 2 2 2 4 3 2 4;}
@font-face
        {font-family:Tahoma;
        panose-1:2 11 6 4 3 5 4 4 2 4;}
 /* Style Definitions */
 p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal
        {margin:0cm;
        margin-bottom:.0001pt;
        font-size:12.0pt;
        font-family:"Times New Roman","serif";}
h1
        {margin:0cm;
        margin-bottom:.0001pt;
        line-height:200%;
        page-break-after:avoid;
        font-size:14.0pt;
        font-family:"Times New Roman","serif";
        font-weight:normal;}
h2
        {mso-style-link:"Heading 2 Char";
        margin-top:12.0pt;
        margin-right:0cm;
        margin-bottom:3.0pt;
        margin-left:0cm;
        page-break-after:avoid;
        font-size:14.0pt;
        font-family:"Arial","sans-serif";
        font-weight:bold;
        font-style:italic;}
h3
        {margin-top:12.0pt;
        margin-right:0cm;
        margin-bottom:3.0pt;
        margin-left:0cm;
        page-break-after:avoid;
        font-size:13.0pt;
        font-family:"Arial","sans-serif";
        font-weight:bold;}
p.MsoHeader, li.MsoHeader, div.MsoHeader
        {margin:0cm;
        margin-bottom:.0001pt;
        font-size:12.0pt;
        font-family:"Times New Roman","serif";}
p.MsoFooter, li.MsoFooter, div.MsoFooter
        {margin:0cm;
        margin-bottom:.0001pt;
        font-size:12.0pt;
        font-family:"Times New Roman","serif";}
p.MsoBodyText, li.MsoBodyText, div.MsoBodyText
        {margin:0cm;
        margin-bottom:.0001pt;
        line-height:200%;
        font-size:11.0pt;
        font-family:"Courier New";}
p.MsoBodyText2, li.MsoBodyText2, div.MsoBodyText2
        {margin:0cm;
        margin-bottom:.0001pt;
        line-height:200%;
        font-size:12.0pt;
        font-family:"Courier New";}
a:link, span.MsoHyperlink
        {color:blue;
        text-decoration:underline;}
a:visited, span.MsoHyperlinkFollowed
        {color:purple;
        text-decoration:underline;}
p.MsoDocumentMap, li.MsoDocumentMap, div.MsoDocumentMap
        {margin:0cm;
        margin-bottom:.0001pt;
        background:navy;
        font-size:12.0pt;
        font-family:"Tahoma","sans-serif";}
p
        {margin-right:0cm;
        margin-left:0cm;
        font-size:12.0pt;
        font-family:"Times New Roman","serif";}
p.StyleHeading1Left, li.StyleHeading1Left, div.StyleHeading1Left
        {mso-style-name:"Style Heading 1 + Left";
        margin:0cm;
        margin-bottom:.0001pt;
        line-height:200%;
        page-break-after:avoid;
        font-size:14.0pt;
        font-family:"Times New Roman","serif";}
p.StyleHeading1Left1, li.StyleHeading1Left1, div.StyleHeading1Left1
        {mso-style-name:"Style Heading 1 + Left1";
        margin:0cm;
        margin-bottom:.0001pt;
        line-height:200%;
        page-break-after:avoid;
        font-size:14.0pt;
        font-family:"Times New Roman","serif";}
span.Heading2Char
        {mso-style-name:"Heading 2 Char";
        mso-style-link:"Heading 2";
        font-family:"Arial","sans-serif";
        font-weight:bold;
        font-style:italic;}
span.msoIns
        {mso-style-name:"";
        text-decoration:underline;
        color:teal;}
span.msoDel
        {mso-style-name:"";
        text-decoration:line-through;
        color:red;}
 /* Page Definitions */
 @page Section1
        {size:612.0pt 792.0pt;
        margin:72.0pt 72.0pt 72.0pt 72.0pt;}
div.Section1
        {page:Section1;}
 /* List Definitions */
 ol
        {margin-bottom:0cm;}
ul
        {margin-bottom:0cm;}
-->
/*]]>*/
</style>
</head>
<body lang="EN-US" link="blue" vlink="purple" xml:lang="EN-US">
<div class="Section1">
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<h1>Introduction to WARBREAKER</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Welcome!
My name is Brandon Sanderson. Before anything else, I&#8217;d like
to thank you for your interest in my books. I hope you enjoy
<i>Warbreaker</i>.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;In case
you don&#8217;t know, I&#8217;m a professional fantasy novelist. My
first book, <i>Elantris</i>, was published in some thirteen
languages, earned me a Campbell nomination, and got starred reviews
in Publisher&#8217;s Weekly and the Library Journal. It was also
picked by Barnes and Noble editors as the best fantasy or science
fiction book of the year.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;My
second book, <i>Mistborn</i>, is out in paperback. <i>Mistborn 2:
The Well of Ascension</i> was published in August of 2007. Book
three is out in October of this year. I also have a kid&#8217;s
book <i>Alcatraz versus the Evil Librarians</i> out from Scholastic
Press. You can find sample chapters of these books at the end of
this file. If you like Warbreaker, consider buying those!</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;As many of
you might already know, I was chosen in December of 2007 to
complete Robert Jordan&#8217;s epic masterpiece The Wheel of Time.
I&#8217;m hard at work on the twelfth and final novel in this
series, titled A MEMORY OF LIGHT. It should be out sometime in the
fall of 2009.&#160; Coincidentally, that should be the same year
<i>Warbreaker</i> is released.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">How this Book Came About</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Warbreaker</i> is something
of an experiment for me. For a long time, I&#8217;ve wanted to
release an e-book on my website. My first inclination was to grab
one of my old, unpublished books and offer it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And yet,
one of my main reasons for releasing said e-book would be for
publicity reasons. I wanted something I could give away for free
which would show what I&#8217;m capable of writing and therefore
(hopefully) encourage people to look into my other books. I figure
that if people give my books a try, they&#8217;ll be hooked and
read the other ones.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That made
me want to offer something new.&#160; Something that showed off the
very best of my abilities. Why offer an inferior product as your
free sample? If it wasn&#8217;t good enough to get published on its
own, then wouldn&#8217;t that lead people to think of my books as
inferior?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That leads
us to <i>Warbreaker</i>. This is not an old work. In fact, this is
my newest work. It has been purchased by Tor (who gave me
permission to try this experiment) and will be published in
hardcover in 2009, with a paperback release to follow the next
year.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I like to
have a lot of contact with my fans, and as I contemplated releasing
a new book (rather than an old one) on my website, I had a chance
to do something rarely seen. I could release drafts of the book
<i>as I wrote them</i>, allowing my readers to catch a glimpse of
the writing process. They could see the evolution of the book,
maybe even offer feedback on early drafts, allowing them to have a
much closer connection to me as a writer and this book in specific.
By doing this, I could make <i>Warbreaker</i> a project which would
engage my already existing readers as well as people who&#8217;d
never tried my books before.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I decided
to go ahead and give this a try. That was back in June of 2006.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal"><br />
My Worries</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Releasing
the book this way is a gamble for two reasons.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;First off,
there&#8217;s the perennial fear that I think all artist get when
they give away their art for free. A part of me worries that by
giving this book away, it will end up selling dreadfully when
it&#8217;s actually released. Poor sales like that on one book
(even a 10% drop) could set a bad tempo for future books.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I
don&#8217;t think this is likely. I, personally, feel very
differently about art and the public than certain record executives
appear to feel. I think that people WILL pay money for something
they&#8217;ve already read if they liked it enough. They can always
get books for free via the library anyway. Besides, I&#8217;m not
trying to recruit people to buy one book; I&#8217;m trying to
recruit lifelong fans who will still be reading Brandon Sanderson
novels twenty years from now.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;On top of
all that, I believe that releasing at least one novel for free will
bring my work to many readers who wouldn&#8217;t otherwise be
familiar with my work. The potential gains far outweigh the
potential losses.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Still, I
worry a little bit. But artists tend to do that.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The second
fear I have relates not to releasing a work on-line, but releasing
an <i>Unfinished</i> work on line. Though this is the fourth draft
of the book, my novels usually see somewhere near eight drafts
before they go to press. This is still a work in progress. What if
readers pick this up, read through it, and judge me flawed as a
writer because their only experience with me comes from an
unpolished work?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;This one
really bothers my agent. &#160;He&#8217;s got a good point. Still,
I think the opportunity that this affords my readers--particularly
the aspiring writers among them--was too great to ignore. It is
done, and I intend to stick to my original plan. I will post every
draft as I complete them, then will eventually post comparisons of
the drafts so that readers can follow the changes made to the
book.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Know,
however, that this is <i>still a work in progress</i>. Don&#8217;t
judge me too harshly based on its flaws.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">Conclusion</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;My hope is
still to let readers collaborate a little bit on this book. Feel
free to visit my forums and email me with your impressions of the
novel. Your feelings and questions are important to me and can help
this book grow better.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I hope
that you enjoy this book. If you do, the best thing you can do to
say thanks would be to purchase a copy when it is released!
(It&#8217;s looking like Spring 2009.) You are also welcome to
share it with friends (see the rights explanation below.)</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Remember
my published novels as well. &#160;They are far more polished, and
if you want to make certain that I write more fantasy novels in the
future, the best thing to do is indicate your will to Tor by
purchasing my novels. You can find sample chapters of each of my
published works at the end of this document. If you&#8217;re
reading in Microsoft Word, you can use the Document Map to jump to
them. (Or to jump between chapters of WARBREAKER.) Using this, you
can also find a list of revisions (spoiler warning!) that were made
in this draft.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Most of
all, I want to thank you for reading. I think the primary
motivation of all artists is the desire to express
themselves.&#160; My books are not complete until you read them and
add your imagination to the events they contain. For me, sales are
secondary to that.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Enjoy.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Brandon
Sanderson, January 2008</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">My website:
http://www.brandonsanderson.com</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">(This includes my blog.)</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">WARBREAKER Portal:
http://www.brandonsanderson.com/portal/Warbreaker</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">(This includes links to older versions of the
book.)</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">My forums:
http://www.timewastersguide.com/forum/index.php?board=14.0</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">(This includes a thread dedicated to
WARBREAKER reactions and feedback.)</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">My Email: Brandon@brandonsanderson.com</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear=
"all" style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<h1>Rights Explanation</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p>I am releasing each draft of WARBREAKER under a Creative Commons
non-commercial, non-derivative work license. For an official
explanation of this, visit the Creative Commons website.</p>
<p><br />
This work is licensed under a <a href=
"http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/us/">Creative
Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-No Derivative Works 3.0 United
States License</a>.</p>
<p>In a more specific explanation, this means that:</p>
<p>1) You are free to share this book with anyone you like,
provided you don't change the document at all or profit from the
distribution. &#160;</p>
<p>2) You may print off copies of the book for personal use,
but--again--may not profit from doing so.</p>
<p>3) You may not change the text of the work in any way, or imply
that you wrote the book, or anything of that nature.</p>
<p>4) There is a no derivative works clause on this, since I don't
want people adding chapters to the end or altering the work in any
way. However, I provide an exemption for fan art, provided you do
not attach it to the document and clearly explain that the art is
not mine or related officially to the project.</p>
<p>5) I also provide an exemption for fanfics, provided
that--again--you do not attach them to this work or imply they are
my work. In addition, by writing a fanfic that uses these
characters, this magic, or that is related to this work in any way,
you waive all rights to that work. (In other words, you can't write
a WARBREAKER fanfic, then sue me for compensation if I happen to
write something similar in a sequel. I'm not going to steal your
ideas, but I've got to write something like this just in case. It's
every author's nightmare to get sued for writing in their own
worlds, and is one of the reasons so many of them are so afraid of
fanfiction.)</p>
<p>6) The above also holds for any feedback or suggestions you give
me regarding this work on my forums. By offering feedback, you
waive all rights to those suggestions and waive all rights to
compensation for your help. I love to get feedback, and it's one of
the reasons why I decided to post these chapters on-line as I wrote
them. However, don't sue me if I actually decide to take some of
your suggestions!</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Acknowledgements</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I haven&#8217;t yet complied a
list of all the people who have given feedback on this project.
It&#8217;s going to be a large task to do so! I plan to do it next
revision, though.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Many thanks to the following
people who have commented on the book so far, or who have given me
proofreading help! Special thanks in this department go to Emily
Sanderson, Joevans3, and Dreamking47 for their extensive
suggestions. &#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Also, many thanks to Jeff
Creer, Megan Kauffman, thelsdj, Peter Ahlstrom, Miriel, Greyhound,
Texxas, Demented Yam, D.Demille, Loryn, Kuntry Bumpken, BarbaraJ,
Shir Hasirim, Digitalbias, Spink Longfellow, amyface, Richard
Gordon, Swiggly, Dawncawley, Derio, amyface, and David B for their
suggestions and encouragement.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Prologue</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Why,</i> Vasher thought,
<i>do so many things begin with me getting thrown into
prison?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The guardsmen laughed to one
another outside, slamming the cell door shut with a clang. Vasher
stood and dusted himself off, rolling his shoulder and wincing. He
glanced about. While the bottom half of his cell door was made of
solid wood, the top half was barred, and he could see the three
guards open his duffle and rifle through his possessions.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;One of them noticed him. The
guard was an oversized beast of a man with a shaved head and a
dirtied uniform that just barely showed the bright yellow and blue
colorings of the T&#8217;Telir city guard.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Bright colors,</i> Vasher
thought. <i>I&#8217;ll have to get used to those again.</i> In any
other nation, the vibrant blues and yellows would have been
ridiculous on soldiers. This, however, was Hallandren: land of
Returned Gods, Lifeless servants, BioChromatic research, and--of
course--color.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The large guard sauntered
toward the cell, leaving his friends to amuse themselves with
Vasher&#8217;s duffle. &#8220;They say you&#8217;re pretty
tough,&#8221; the man said, sizing up Vasher.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher did not respond.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The bartender says you
beat down some twenty men in the brawl.&#8221; The guard rubbed his
chin. &#8220;You don&#8217;t look that tough to me. Either way, you
should have known better than to strike a priest. The others,
they&#8217;ll spend a night locked up. You, though. . .you&#8217;ll
hang. Colorless fool.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher turned away. His cell
was functional, if unoriginal. A thin slit in the top let in light,
the stone walls dripped with water and lichen, and a pile of dirty
straw decomposed in the corner.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You ignoring me?&#8221;
the guard asked, stepping closer to the bars. The colors of his
uniform brightened, as if he&#8217;d stepped into a stronger light.
The change was slight.&#160; Vasher didn&#8217;t have much Breath
remaining. The guard didn&#8217;t notice the change in color--just
like he hadn&#8217;t noticed back in the bar, when he and his
buddies had picked Vasher up off the floor and thrown him in their
cart. He&#8217;d soon wish that he&#8217;d been more observant.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Here, now,&#8221; said
one of the men looking through Vasher&#8217;s duffle.
&#8220;What&#8217;s <i>this?</i>&#8221; Vasher had always found it
odd that the men who patrolled dungeons tended to be as bad, or
worse, than the men they guarded. Perhaps that was intentional.
Society didn&#8217;t seem to care if such men were outside the
cells or in them, so long as they were kept away from more honest
men.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Assuming that such a thing
existed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A guard pulled a long
object--wrapped in white linen--free from Vasher&#8217;s bag. The
man frowned as he unwrapped the linen, revealing a long,
thin-bladed sword in a silver sheath. The hilt was pure black.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The guard whistled quietly.
&#8220;Who do you suppose he stole <i>this</i> from?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The lead guard eyed Vasher,
likely wondering if Vasher were some kind of nobleman. Though
Hallandren had no aristocracy, many neighboring kingdoms had their
lords and ladies. Yet, what lord would wear a drab brown cloak,
ripped in several places? What lord would sport bruises from a bar
fight, a half-grown beard, and boots worn from years of walking?
The guard turned away, apparently convinced that Vasher was no
lord.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He was right. And he was
wrong.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Let me see that,&#8221;
the lead guard said, taking the sword. He grunted, obviously
surprised by its weight. He turned it about, noting the clasp that
tied sheath to hilt, keeping the blade from being drawn. He undid
the clasp.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The colors in the room deepened
slightly. They didn&#8217;t grow brighter--not like the
guard&#8217;s vest had when he approached Vasher. Instead, they
grew <i>stronger</i>. Darker. Reds became maroon. Yellows hardened
to gold. Blues approached navy.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Be careful,
friend,&#8221; Vasher said softly, &#8220;that sword can be
dangerous.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The guard looked up. All was
still. Then, the guard snorted and walked away from Vasher&#8217;s
cell, still carrying the sword. The other two followed, bearing
Vasher&#8217;s duffle, entering the guard room at the end of the
hallway.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The door thumped shut.&#160;
Vasher immediately knelt beside the patch of straw, selecting a
handful of sturdy lengths. He pulled threads from his cloak--it was
beginning to get frayed at the bottom--and tied the straw into the
shape of a small person, perhaps three inches high. He plucked a
hair from one of his eyebrows, set it against the straw
figure&#8217;s head, then reached into his boot and pulled out a
brilliant red scarf.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Then, Vasher Breathed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It flowed out of him, puffing
into the air, translucent yet radiant, like the color of oil on
water in the sun. Vasher felt it leave: BioChromatic Breath,
scholars called it.&#160; Most people just called it Breath. Each
person had one. Or, at least, that was how it usually went. One
person, one Breath.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher had around fifty
Breaths, just enough to reach the First Heightening. Having so few
made him feel poor, though many would consider fifty Breaths to be
a great treasure. Unfortunately, even Awakening a small figure made
from organic material--using a piece of his own body as a
focus--drained away some half of his Breaths.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The little straw figure jerked,
sucking in the Breath. In Vasher&#8217;s hand, half of the
brilliant red scarf faded to grey. Vasher leaned down--imagining
what he wanted the figure to do--and completed the final step of
the process as he gave the Command.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Fetch keys,&#8221; he
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The straw figure stood and
raised its single eyebrow toward Vasher.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher pointed toward the guard
room. From it, he heard sudden shouts of surprise.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Not much time,</i> he
thought.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The straw person ran along the
floor, then jumped up, vaulting between the bars. Vasher pulled off
his cloak, then set it on the floor. It was the perfect shape of a
person--marked with rips that matched the scars on Vasher&#8217;s
body, its hood cut with holes to match Vasher&#8217;s eyes. The
closer an object was to human shape and form, the fewer Breaths it
took to Awaken.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher leaned down, trying not
to think of the days when he&#8217;d had enough Breaths to Awaken
without regard for shape or focus. That had been a different time.
He pulled a tuft of hair from his head, then sprinkled it across
the hood of the cloak.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Once again, he Breathed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It took the rest of his Breath.
With it gone--the cloak trembling, the scarf losing the rest of its
color--Vasher felt. . .dimmer. Losing one&#8217;s Breath was not
fatal. Indeed, the extra Breaths Vasher held had once belonged to
other people. Vasher didn&#8217;t know who they were; he
hadn&#8217;t gathered these Breaths himself. They had been given to
him.&#160; But, of course, that was the way it was always supposed
to work. One could not take Breath by force.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Being void of Breath <i>did</i>
change him. Colors didn&#8217;t seem as bright. He couldn&#8217;t
<i>feel</i> the bustling people moving about in the city above, a
connection he often took for granted. It was the awareness all men
had for others--that thing which whispered a warning, in the
drowsiness of sleep, when someone entered the room. In Vasher, that
sense had been magnified fifty times.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And now it was gone.&#160;
Sucked into the cloak and the straw person, giving them power.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The cloak jerked.&#160; Vasher
leaned down. &#8220;Protect me,&#8221; he Commanded, and the cloak
grew still. He stood, throwing it on.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The straw figure returned to
his window. It carried a large ring of keys. The figure&#8217;s
straw feet were stained red. The crimson blood seemed so dull to
Vasher.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He took the keys.&#160;
&#8220;Thank you,&#8221; he said. He always thanked them. He
didn&#8217;t know why, particularly considering what he did next.
&#8220;Your Breath to mine,&#8221; he commanded, touching the straw
person&#8217;s chest. The straw person immediately fell backward
off the door--life draining from it--and Vasher got his Breath
back. The familiar sense of awareness returned, the knowledge of
connectedness, of <i>fitting</i>.&#160; He could only take the
Breath back because he&#8217;d Awakened this creature
himself--indeed, Awakenings of this sort were rarely permanent. He
used his Breath like a reservoir, doling it out, then recovering
it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Compared to what he had once
held, twenty-five Breaths was a laughably small number. However,
compared to nothing, it seemed infinite. He shivered in
satisfaction.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The yells from the guard room
died out. The dungeon fell still. He had to keep moving.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher reached through the
bars, using the keys to unlock his cell. He pushed the thick door
open, rushing out into the hallway, leaving the straw figure
discarded on the ground. He didn&#8217;t escape the dungeons, but
instead turned south, penetrating deeper into their depths.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;This was the most uncertain
part of his plan. Finding a tavern that was frequented by priests
of the Iridescent Tones had been easy enough. Getting into a bar
fight--then striking one of those same priests--had been equally
simple. Hallandrens took their religious figures very seriously,
and Vasher had earned himself not the usual imprisonment in a local
jail, but a trip to the God King&#8217;s dungeons.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Knowing what kind of men tended
to guard such dungeons, he&#8217;d had a pretty good idea that they
would try to draw Nightblood. That had given him the distraction
he&#8217;d needed to get the keys.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But now came the uncertain
part.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher stopped, Awakened cloak
rustling. It easy to spot the cell he wanted, for around it a large
patch of stone had been drained of color, leaving both walls and
doors a dull grey. It was a place to imprison an Awakener. No color
meant no Awakening. Vasher stepped up to the door, looking through
the bars. A man hung by his arms from the ceiling, naked and
chained. His color was vibrant to Vasher&#8217;s eyes, his skin
pure, his bruises brilliant.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man was gagged.&#160;
Another precaution. In order to Awaken, the man would need three
things: Breath, color, and a command. The Harmonics and the Hues,
some called it. The Iridescent tones. The relationship between
color and sound. A Command had to be spoken clearly and firmly in
the Awakener&#8217;s native language--any stuttering, any
mispronunciation, would invalidate the Awakening. The Breath would
be drawn out, but the object would be unable to act.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher used the prison keys to
unlock the cell door, then stepped inside. The aura of color this
man gave off was a manifestation of the many Breaths he held.
Hundreds upon hundreds of them. Anyone would be able to notice an
aura that strong, though it was much easier for someone who had
reached the First Heightening.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It wasn&#8217;t the strongest
BioChromatic aura Vasher had ever seen--those belonged to the
Returned, known as gods here in Hallandren. Still, the
prisoner&#8217;s BioChroma was very impressive and much, much
stronger than Vasher&#8217;s own.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man swung in his bonds,
studying Vasher, gagged lips bleeding from lack of water. Vasher
hesitated only briefly, then reached up and pulled the gag
free.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You,&#8221; the prisoner
whispered, coughing slightly and licking his lips. &#8220;Are you
here to free me?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No, Vahr,&#8221; Vasher
said quietly. &#8220;I&#8217;m here to kill you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vahr snorted. Captivity
hadn&#8217;t been easy on him. When Vasher had last seen Vahr,
he&#8217;d been plump--but now, judging by the emaciated body,
he&#8217;d been without food for some time. The cuts, burn marks,
and bruises on his flesh were fresh.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Both the torture and the
haunted look in Vahr&#8217;s bag-rimmed eyes bespoke a solemn
truth. Breath could only be transferred by willful, intentional
Command. That Command could, however, be encouraged.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So,&#8221; Vahr croaked,
&#8220;you judge me, just like everyone else.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your crimes are not my
concern. I just want your Breath.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You and the entire
Hallandren court.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes. But you&#8217;re
not going to give it to one of the Returned. You&#8217;re going to
give it to me. In exchange for killing you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Doesn&#8217;t seem like
much of a trade.&#8221; There was a hardness--a void of emotion--in
Vahr that Vasher had not seen the last time they had parted, years
before.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Odd,</i> Vasher thought,
<i>that I should finally, after all of this time, find something in
the man that I can identify with.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher kept a wary distance
from Vahr. Now that the man&#8217;s voice was free, he could
Command.&#160; However, the only thing he was touching was the
chains. It would take more Breath than even Vahr possessed to
Awaken metal. It had never been alive, and it was far from the form
of a man. Even during the height of his power, Vasher himself had
only managed to Awaken metal on a few, select occasions.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher walked around the
chained man, finding it very difficult to offer any sympathy. Vahr
had earned his fate. Yet, the priests would not let him die while
he held so much Breath; if he died, it would be wasted. Gone.
Irretrievable. The hundreds of people Vahr had coerced into giving
him their Breath would continue to live as Drabs--or Faded Ones,
they were sometimes called--but their Breath itself would be
lost.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Wasted power. Not even the
government of Hallandren--who had such strict laws about the buying
and passing of Breath--could let such a wealth slip away. They
wanted it badly enough to forestall the execution of even a
high-profile criminal like Vahr.&#160; In retrospect, they would
curse themselves for not leaving him better guarded.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But, then, Vasher had been
waiting two years for an opportunity like this one.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well?&#8221; Vahr
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Give me the Breath,
Vahr,&#8221; Vasher said, stepping forward.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vahr snorted. &#8220;I doubt
you have the skill of the God King&#8217;s torturers, Vasher--and
I&#8217;ve withstood them for two weeks now.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;d be
surprised. But that doesn&#8217;t matter. You <i>are</i> going to
give me your Breath, Vahr. You know you have only two choices. Give
it to me, or give it to them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vahr hung by his wrists,
rotating slowly. Silent.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You don&#8217;t have
much time to consider,&#8221; Vasher said. &#8220;Any moment now,
someone is going to discover the dead guards outside. The alarm
will be raised. I&#8217;ll leave you, you <i>will</i> be tortured
again, and you <i>will</i> eventually break. Then all the power
you&#8217;ve gathered will go to the very people you vowed to
destroy.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vahr stared at the floor. Then,
he looked up at Vasher. &#8220;That. . .thing you bear. It&#8217;s
here, in the city?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher nodded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The screams I heard
earlier? It caused them?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher nodded again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;How long will you be in
T&#8217;Telir?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;For a time. A year,
perhaps.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vahr grew quiet.
&#8220;It&#8217;s yours,&#8221; he finally whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher reached over, resting
his hand on Vahr&#8217;s forehead--careful not to let any part of
his clothing touch the man&#8217;s skin, lest Vahr draw forth color
for Awakening.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vahr didn&#8217;t move. He
looked numb. Then, just as Vasher began to worry that the prisoner
had changed his mind, Vahr Breathed. The color drained from him.
The beautiful Iridescence, the aura that had made him look majestic
despite his wounds and chains. It flowed from his mouth, hanging in
the air, shimmering like mist.&#160; Vasher drew it in, closing his
eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My life to yours,&#8221;
Vahr Commanded, a hint of despair in his voice. &#8220;My Breath
become yours.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The Breath flooded into Vasher,
and everything became vibrant. His brown cloak now seemed deep and
rich in color. The blood on the floor was so pure and red, as if
aflame. &#160;Even Vahr&#8217;s skin seemed a masterpiece of color,
the surface marked by deep black hairs, blue bruises, and sharp red
cuts. It had been years since Vasher had felt such. .
.<i>life</i>.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He gasped, falling to his knees
as it overwhelmed him, and he had to drop a hand to the stone floor
to keep himself from toppling over. &#160;&#160;<i>How did I live
without this?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He knew that his senses
hadn&#8217;t actually improved, yet he felt so much more alert.
More aware of the beauty of sensation. When he touched the stone
floor, he marveled at its roughness. And the sound of wind passing
through the thin dungeon window up above. Had it always been that
melodic? How could he not have noticed?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Keep your part of the
bargain,&#8221; Vahr said, and Vasher noted the tones in his voice,
the beauty of each one, how close they were to harmonics. Vasher
had gained perfect pitch.&#160; A gift for anyone who reached the
Second Heightening. It would be good to have that again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher stood, then pulled out
the colorless scarf he had used earlier. He tossed it over
Vahr&#8217;s shoulder, then Breathed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He didn&#8217;t bother making
the scarf have human shape, didn&#8217;t need to use a bit of his
hair or skin for a focus--though he did have to draw the color from
his shirt.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher met Vahr&#8217;s
resigned eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Strangle things,&#8221;
Vasher Commanded, fingers touching the quivering scarf.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It twisted immediately, pulling
away a large--yet now inconsequential--amount of Breath. The scarf
quickly wrapped around Vahr&#8217;s neck, tightening, choking him.
Vahr didn&#8217;t struggle or gasp, he simply watched Vasher with
hatred until his eyes bulged and he died.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hatred. Vasher had known enough
of that in his time. He quietly reached up and recovered his Breath
from the scarf, then left Vahr dangling in his cell. Vasher passed
quietly though the prison, marveling at the color of the woods and
the stones.&#160; After a few moments of walking, he noticed a new
color in the hallway. Red.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He stepped around the pool of
blood--which was seeping down the inclined dungeon floor--and moved
into the guard room. The three guards lay dead. One of them sat in
a chair. Nightblood, still mostly sheathed, had been rammed through
the man&#8217;s chest. About an inch of a dark black blade was
visible beneath the silver sheath.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher carefully slid the
weapon fully back into is sheath. He did up the clasp.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I did very well today,</i> a
voice said in his mind.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher didn&#8217;t respond to
the sword.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I killed them all,</i>
Nightblood continued. <i>Aren&#8217;t you proud of me?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher picked up the weapon,
accustomed to its unusual weight, and carried it in one hand. He
recovered his duffle and slung it over his shoulder.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I knew you&#8217;d be
impressed,</i> Nightblood said, sounding satisfied.<br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter One</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='margin-top:12.0pt;line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;There were great advantages to
being unimportant.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;True, by many people&#8217;s
standards, Siri wasn&#8217;t &#8216;unimportant.&#8217; She was,
after all, the daughter of a king. Fortunately, her father had four
living children, and Siri--at seventeen years of age--was the
youngest. Fafen, the daughter just older than Siri, had done the
family duty and become a monk. Above Fafen was Ridger, the eldest
son.&#160; He would inherit the throne.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And then there was
Vivenna.&#160; Siri sighed as she walked down the path back to the
city. Vivenna, the firstborn, was. . .well. . .Vivenna. Beautiful,
poised, perfect in most every way. It was a good thing, too,
considering the fact that she was engaged to marry a god.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Either way, Siri--as fourth
child--was redundant. Vivenna and Ridger had to focus on their
studies; Fafen had to do her work in the pastures and homes. Siri,
however, could get away with being unimportant. That meant she
could disappear into the wilderness for hours at a time.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;People would notice, of
course--and she <i>would</i> get into trouble. Yet, even her father
would have to admit that her disappearance hadn&#8217;t caused much
of an inconvenience. The city got along just fine without Siri--in
fact, it tended to do a little better when she wasn&#8217;t
around.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Unimportance. To another, it
might have been offensive. To Siri, however, it was a blessing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She smiled, walking into the
city proper. She drew the inevitable stares. While Bevalis was
technically the capitol of Idris, it wasn&#8217;t that big, and
everyone knew her by name. Judging by the stories Siri had heard
from passing ramblemen, her home city was hardly even a village
when compared to the massive metropolises in other nations.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She liked it the way it was,
even with the muddy streets, the thatched cottages, and the
boring--yet sturdy--stone walls. Women chasing runaway geese, men
pulling donkeys laden with spring seed, and children leading sheep
the village on their way to pasture. A grand city in Xaka, Hudres,
or even terrible Hallandren might have exotic sights, but it would
be busy with faceless shouting, jostling crowds, and haughty
noblemen. Not Siri&#8217;s preference; she generally found even
Bevalis to be a bit crowded for her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Still,</i> she thought,
looking down at her utilitarian grey dress, <i>I&#8217;ll bet those
cities have more colors. That&#8217;s something I might like to
see.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her hair wouldn&#8217;t stand
out so much there. As usual, the long locks had gone blonde with
joy while she&#8217;d been out in the fields. She concentrated,
trying to rein them in, but she was only able to bring the color to
a dull brown. As soon as she stopped focusing, her hair just went
back to the way it had been. She&#8217;d never been very good at
controlling it. Not like Vivenna.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;As she continued through the
town, some small figures began trailing her. She smiled, pretending
to ignore the children until one of them was brave enough to run
forward and tug on her dress. Then she turned, smiling. They
regarded her with solemn faces. Idris children were trained even at
this age to avoid shameful outbursts of emotion. Austrin teachings
said there was nothing wrong with feelings, but drawing attention
to yourself with them was wrong.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri had never been very
devout. It wasn&#8217;t her fault, she reasoned, if Austre had made
her with a rather distinct inability to obey. The children waited
patiently until Siri reached into her apron and pulled out a couple
of brightly colored flowers.&#160; The children&#8217;s eyes opened
wide, gazing at the vibrant colors. Three of the flowers were blue,
one yellow.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The flowers were stark against
the town&#8217;s determined drabness. Other than what one could
find on the skin and eyes of the people here wasn&#8217;t a drop of
color in sight. Stones had been whitewashed, clothing bleached grey
or tan. All to keep the color away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;For without color, there could
be no Awakening.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The girl who had tugged
Siri&#8217;s skirt finally took the flowers in one hand and dashed
away with them, the other children following behind. Siri caught a
look of disproval in the eyes of several passing villagers. None of
them confronted her, though. Being a princess--even an unimportant
one--did have its perks.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She continued on toward the
palace. It was a flat, single-story building with a large
courtyard. Siri avoided the crowds at the front, rounding to the
back and going in the kitchen entrance. Mab, the kitchen mistress,
stopped singing as the door opened, then eyed Siri.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your father&#8217;s been
looking for you, child,&#8221; Mab said, turning away and humming
as she attacked a pile of onions.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I suspect that he
has.&#8221; Siri walked over and sniffed at a pot, which bore the
calm scent of boiling potatoes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Went to the hills again,
didn&#8217;t you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri smiled, then pulled out
another of the bright yellow flowers, spinning it between two
fingers.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Mab rolled her eyes.&#160;
&#8220;And, been corrupting the city youth again, I suspect. Your
father will have words with you about that.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I like words,&#8221;
Siri said. &#8220;And I always learn a few new ones when father
gets angry. I shouldn&#8217;t neglect my education, now should
I?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Mab snorted, dicing some
pickled tomatoes into the onions.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Honestly, Mab,&#8221;
Siri said, twirling the flower, feeling her hair shade a little bit
red. &#8220;I don&#8217;t see what the problem is. Austre made the
flowers, right? He put the colors on them, so they can&#8217;t be
evil. I mean, we call him God of Colors, for heaven&#8217;s
sake.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Flowers ain&#8217;t
evil,&#8221; Mab said, adding something that looked like grass to
her concoction, &#8220;assuming they&#8217;re left where Austre put
them. We shouldn&#8217;t use Austre&#8217;s beauty to make
ourselves more important.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;A flower doesn&#8217;t
make me look more important.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh?&#8221; Mab asked,
adding the grass, tomatoes, and onions to one of her boiling posts.
She banged the side of the pot with the flat of her knife,
listening, then nodded to herself and began fishing under the
counter for more vegetables. &#8220;You tell me,&#8221; she
continued, voice muffled. &#8220;You really think walking through
the city with a flower like that didn&#8217;t draw attention to
yourself?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s only
because the city is so drab. If there were a bit of color around,
nobody would notice a flower.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Mab reappeared, hefting a box
filled with various tubers. &#8220;Is that so? You&#8217;d have us
decorate the place like Hallandren? Maybe we should start inviting
Awakeners into the city too? How&#8217;d you like that? Some devil
sucking the souls out of children, strangling people with their own
clothing? Bringing men back from the grave, then using their dead
bodies for cheap labor? Sacrificing women on their unholy
altars?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri felt her hair whiten
slightly with anxiety. <i>Stop that!</i> she thought. The hair
seemed to have a mind of its own, responding to gut feelings.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That sacrificing part is
only a story,&#8221; Siri said. &#8220;They don&#8217;t really do
that.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Stories come from
somewhere.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, from old women
sitting by the hearth in the winter. Either way, I don&#8217;t
think we need to be so frightened of them. The Hallandrens will do
what they want, which is fine by me, as long as they leave us
alone.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Mab chopped tubers, not looking
up.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We&#8217;ve got the
treaty, Mab,&#8221; Siri said. &#8220;They <i>will</i> leave us
alone.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And if they
don&#8217;t?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They will. You
don&#8217;t need to worry.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They have better
armies,&#8221; Mab said, chopping, not looking up, &#8220;better
steel, more food, and those. . .those <i>things</i> serving them.
It makes people worry. Maybe not <i>you</i>, but sensible
folk.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The cook&#8217;s words were
hard to dismiss out of hand. Mab had a sense for things, a wisdom
beyond her instinct for spices and broths. However, she <i>also</i>
tended to worry.&#160; &#8220;You&#8217;re worrying about nothing,
Mab. You&#8217;ll see.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m just saying
that this is a bad time for a royal princess to be running around
with flowers, standin&#8217; out and inviting Austre&#8217;s
dislike.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri sighed. &#8220;Fine,
then,&#8221; she said, tossing her last flower into the stew pot.
&#8220;Now we can all stand out together.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Mab froze, then rolled her
eyes, chopping a root. &#8220;I assume that was a vanavel
flower?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course,&#8221; Siri
said, sniffing at the steaming pot. &#8220;I know better than to
ruin a good stew. I and still say you&#8217;re over
reacting.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Mab sniffed.
&#8220;Here,&#8221; she said, pulling out another knife.
&#8220;Make yourself useful. There&#8217;s roots that need
choppin.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Shouldn&#8217;t I report
to my father?&#8221; Siri said, grabbing a vanavel root and
beginning to chop.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He&#8217;ll just send
you back here and make you work in the kitchens as a
punishment,&#8221; Mab said, banging the pot with her knife again.
She had the solemn belief that she could judge when a dish was done
by the way the pot rang.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Austre help me if father
ever discovers I like it down here.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You just like being
close to the food,&#8221; Mab said, fishing Siri&#8217;s flower out
of the stew then tossing it aside. &#8220;Either way, you
can&#8217;t report to him. He&#8217;s in conference with
Yarda.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri gave no reaction--she
simply continued to chop. Her hair, however, grew yellow with
excitement. <i>Father&#8217;s conferences with Yarda usually last
hours,</i> she thought.&#160; <i>Not much point in simply sitting
around, waiting for him to get done. . . .</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Mab turned to get something off
the table, and by the time she looked back, Siri had bolted out the
door and was on her way toward the royal stables. Bare minutes
later, she galloped away from the palace, wearing her favorite
cloak, feeling an exhilarated thrill that sent her hair into a deep
blonde. A nice quick ride would be a good way to round out the
day.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;After all, her punishment was
likely to be the same either way.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dedelin, king of Idris, set the
letter down on his desk. He had stared at it long enough. It was
time to decide whether or not to send his eldest daughter to her
death.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Despite the advent of spring,
his chamber was cold. Warmth was a rare thing in the Idris
Highlands; it was coveted and enjoyed, for it lingered only briefly
each summer. The chambers were also stark. There was a beauty to
simplicity. Even a king had no right to display arrogance by
ostentation.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dedelin stood up, looking out
his window and into the courtyard. The palace was small by the
world&#8217;s standards--only a single story high, with a peaked
wooden roof and squat stone walls. But it was large by Idris
standards, and it bordered on flamboyant. This could be forgiven,
for the palace was also a meeting hall and center of operations for
his entire kingdom.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The king could see General
Yarda out of the corner of his eye. The burly man stood waiting,
his hands clasped behind his back, his thick beard tied in three
places. He was the only other person in the room.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dedelin glanced back at the
letter. The paper was a bright reddish pink, and the garish color
stood out on his desk like a drop of blood in the snow. The pink
was a color one would never see in Idris. In Hallandren,
however--center of the world&#8217;s dye industry--such tasteless
hues were commonplace.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, old friend?&#8221;
Dedelin asked. &#8220;Do you have any counsel for me?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;General Yarda shook his head.
&#8220;War comes, your majesty. I feel it in the winds and read it
in the reports of our spies. Hallandren still considers us rebels,
and our passes to the north are too tempting. They will
attack.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then I shouldn&#8217;t
send her,&#8221; Dedelin said, looking back out his window. The
courtyard bustled with people in furs and cloaks coming to
market.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We can&#8217;t stop the
war, your majesty,&#8221; Yarda said. &#8220;But. . .we can slow
it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dedelin turned back.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Yarda stepped forward, speaking
softly. &#8220;This is not a good time. Our troops still
haven&#8217;t recovered from that Vendis raids last fall, and with
the fires in the granary this winter. . . .&#8221; Yarda shook his
head. &#8220;We <i>cannot</i> afford to get into a defensive war in
the summer. Our best advantage against the Hallandren are the
snows. We can&#8217;t let this conflict happen on their terms. If
we do, we are dead.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The words all made sense.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your majesty,&#8221;
Yarda said, &#8220;they are <i>waiting</i> for us to break the
treaty as an excuse to attack. If we move first, they will
strike.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;If we keep the treaty,
they will <i>still</i> strike,&#8221; Dedelin said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But later. &#160;Perhaps
months later. You know how slow Hallandren politics are. If we keep
the treaty, there will be debates and arguments. If those last
until the snows, then we will have gained time we need so
badly.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It all made sense.&#160;
Brutal, honest sense. All these years, Dedalin had stalled and
watched as the Hallandren court grew more and more aggressive, more
and more agitated. Every year, voices called for an assault on the
&#8216;Rebel Idrians&#8217; living up in the highlands. Every year,
those voices grew louder and more plentiful. Every year,
Dedalin&#8217;s placating and politics kept the armies away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But it could not last.&#160;
Not with Idris ripe, not with the trade routes worth so much. Not
with the current crop of Hallandren Gods, who seemed so much more
malleable than their predecessors. He <i>knew</i> all of that. But
he also knew that breaking the treaty would be foolish. When you
were cast into the den of a beast, you did not provoke it to
anger.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Unfortunately, keeping the
treaty would require doing something he was not certain he could
manage.&#160; He would have to send them Vivenna. His heart twisted
at the thought. His firstborn, the woman who would--in a perfect
world--have ruled when he died. He had to struggle to keep his hair
under control as it started to bleach.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Yarda joined him beside the
window, looking out, leaning one elbow against the side of the
frame. He was a harsh man born of harsh winters. But, he was also
as good a man as Dedelin had ever known--a piece of the king longed
to marry Vivenna to the general&#8217;s own son.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That was foolishness.&#160;
Dedelin had always known this day would come. He&#8217;d crafted
the treaty himself.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;If we send her,
Yarda,&#8221; Dedelin said, &#8220;we send her to her
death.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The general continued to stare
out the window. When war did come, Vivenna would be trapped in the
palace of their enemies, married to their twisted God King. The
Hallandren needed a daughter of the royal blood to reintroduce the
traditional bloodline into their monarchy. It was something the
depraved and vainglorious people of the lowlands had long coveted,
and only that specific clause in the treaty had saved Idris these
twenty years.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That treaty had been the first
official act of Dedalin&#8217;s rein, negotiated furiously
following his father&#8217;s assassination. Dedalin&#8217;s gritted
his teeth. How quickly he&#8217;d bowed before the whims of his
enemies. Yet he would do it again; an Idris monarch would do
anything for his people.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That was one main difference
between the Idris and the Hallandren.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Maybe they won&#8217;t
harm her,&#8221; Yarda finally said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You know better than
that. The first thing they&#8217;ll do when war comes is use her
against me. This is the <i>Hallandren</i>. They invite Awakeners
into their palaces, for Austre&#8217;s sake!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Yarda fell silent.&#160;
Finally, he shook his head. &#8220;Reports say that they keep a
standing army of some forty thousand Lifeless.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Lord God of Colors,</i>
Dedelin thought, glancing at the letter again. Its language was
simple.&#160; Vivenna&#8217;s twenty-second birthday had come, and
the terms of the treaty stipulated that Dedelin could wait no
longer. The Hallandren had every right to demand their bride.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;If that army attacks
this summer, it will be a slaughter,&#8221; Yarda said.
&#8220;Sending Vivenna is a bad plan, but it&#8217;s our only plan.
With more time, I know I can bring the Natiees to our cause--not to
mention the dissidents in Hallandren itself. You know that their
leader has been executed. We can build, gather supplies, live
another year.&#8221; Yarda turned to him. &#8220;If we don&#8217;t
send the Hallandren their princess, the war will be seen as our
fault. Who will support us? They will demand to know why we refused
to follow the treaty our own king wrote!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And if we do send them
Vivenna?&#8221; Dedalin said. &#8220;They will introduce the royal
blood into their monarchy, and that will have an even <i>more</i>
legitimate claim on the highlands!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Perhaps,&#8221; Yarda
said.&#160; &#8220;But if we both know they&#8217;re going to
attack anyway, then what do we care about their claim? At least
this way, perhaps they will wait until an heir is born before the
assault comes.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;More time. The general always
asked for more time. But what about when that time came at the cost
of Dedalin&#8217;s own child?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Yarda wouldn&#8217;t
hesitate to send one soldier to die if it would mean time enough to
get the rest of his troops into better position to attack,</i>
Dedalin thought. <i>We are Idris. How can I ask anything less of my
daughter than I&#8217;d demand of one of my troops?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was just that, thinking of
Vivenna in the God King&#8217;s arms, being forced to bear that
creature&#8217;s child: a stillborn monster who would become the
next Returned God of the Hallandren. <i>There is another way,</i> a
piece of his mind whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A knock came at his door. Both
he and Yarda turned, and Dedelin called for the visitor to enter.
He should have been able to guess who it would be.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Vivenna,&#8221; Dedelin
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She stood in a quiet grey
dress, looking so young to him still. Yet, she was the perfect
image of an Idris woman--hair kept in a modest knot, no makeup to
draw attention to the face. She was not timid or soft, like some
noblewoman from the northern kingdoms. She was just composed.
Composed, simple, hard, and capable. &#160;Idrian.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You have been in here
for several hours, father,&#8221; Vivenna said, bowing her head
respectfully to Yarda. &#8220;The servants speak of a colorful
envelope carried by the general when he entered. I believe I know
what it contained.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dedelin met her eyes, then
waved for her to seat herself. She softly closed the door, then
took one of the wooden chairs from the side of the room. Yarda
remained standing, after the masculine fashion. Vivenna eyed the
letter sitting on the desk. She was calm, her hair controlled and
kept a respectful black. She was twice as devout as Dedelin,
and--unlike her sister--she never drew attention to herself with
fits of emotion.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I assume that I should
prepare myself for departure, then,&#8221; Vivenna said, hands in
her lap.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dedelin opened his mouth, but
could find no objection. He glanced at Yarda, who just shook his
head, resigned.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I have prepared my
entire life for this, father,&#8221; Vivenna said. &#8220;I am
ready. Siri, however, will not take this well. She left on a ride
an hour ago. I should depart the city before she gets back. That
will avoid any potential scene she might make.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Too late,&#8221; Yarda
said, grimacing and nodding toward the window. Just outside, people
scattered in the courtyard as a figure galloped through the gates.
She wore a deep brown cloak that bordered on being too colorful,
and--of course--she had her hair down.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The hair was yellow.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dedelin felt his rage and
frustration growing. Only Siri could make him lose control, and--as
if in ironic counterpoint to the source of his anger--he felt his
hair change. To those watching, a few locks of hair on his head
would have bled from black to red. It was the identifying mark of
the royal family, who had fled to the Idris Highlands at the climax
of the Manywar. Others could hide their emotions. The royals,
however, manifest what they felt in the very hair on their
heads.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna watched him, pristine
as always, and her poise gave him strength as he forced his hair to
turn black again. It took more willpower than any common man could
understand to control the treasonous royal locks. Dedelin
wasn&#8217;t sure how Vivenna managed it so well.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Poor girl never even had a
childhood,</i> he thought. From birth, Vivenna&#8217;s life had
been pointed toward this single event. His firstborn child, the
girl who had always seemed like a piece of himself. The girl who
had always made him proud; the woman who had already earned the
love and respect of her people. In his mind&#8217;s eye he saw the
queen she could be come, stronger even than he. Someone who could
guide them through the dark days ahead.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But only if she survived that
long.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I will prepare myself
for the trip,&#8221; Vivenna said, rising.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; Dedelin
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Yarda and Vivenna both
turned.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Father,&#8221; Vivenna
said. &#8220;If we break this treaty, it will mean war. I am
prepared to sacrifice for our people. You taught me
that.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You will <i>not</i>
go,&#8221; Dedelin said firmly, turning back toward the window.
Outside, Siri was laughing with one of the stablemen. Dedalin could
hear her outburst even from a distance; her hair had turned a
flame-colored red. He felt his own hair bleeding slightly
white.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Lord God of Colors, forgive
me,</i> he thought. <i>What a terrible choice for a father to
make.&#160; But. . .anything for my kingdom. Or, at least, almost
anything.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dedelin turned back toward the
room. &#8220;Vivenna, you will not go to wed the tyrant god of our
enemies. I&#8217;m sending your sister in your place.&#8221;</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='text-align:justify;line-height:200%'>
&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1><span style='font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%'>Chapter
Two</span></h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri sat, stunned, in a
rattling carriage, her homeland growing more and more distant.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Two days had passed, and she
still didn&#8217;t understand. This was supposed to be
Vivenna&#8217;s task.&#160; Everybody understood that. Idris had
thrown a celebration on the day of Vivenna&#8217;s birth. The king
had put her into lessons from the day she could walk, training her
in the ways of court life and politics. Fafen, the second daughter,
had taken the lessons in case Vivenna died before the day of the
wedding. But not Siri. She&#8217;d been redundant. Unimportant.
Just the way she liked it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;No more.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She glanced out the window. Her
father had sent the kingdom&#8217;s nicest carriage--along with an
honor guard of twenty soldiers--to bear her southward. That, mixed
with a steward and several serving boys, made for a procession as
grand as Siri had ever seen. It bordered on ostentation, which
might have thrilled her, had it not been bearing her away from
Idris.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>This isn&#8217;t the way
it&#8217;s supposed to be,</i> she thought. <i>This isn&#8217;t the
way</i> any <i>of it is supposed to happen!</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And yet, it had. &#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It couldn&#8217;t have.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Nothing made sense.&#160; The
carriage bumped, but she just sat, numb. <i>At the very least,</i>
she thought, <i>they could have let me ride horseback, rather than
forcing me to sit in this carriage.</i> That, unfortunately,
wouldn&#8217;t have been an appropriate way to enter
Hallandren.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hallandren.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She felt her hair bleach white
with fear. She was being sent to <i>Hallandren</i>, a kingdom her
people cursed with every second breath. She wouldn&#8217;t see her
father again for a long while, if ever. She wouldn&#8217;t speak
with Vivenna, or listen to the tutors, or be chided by Mab, or ride
the royal horses, or go looking for flowers in the wilderness, or
work in the kitchens. She&#8217;d. . . .</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Marry the God King.&#160; The
terror of Hallandren, the monster that had never drawn a living
breath. In Hallandren, his power was absolute. He could order an
execution on a whim.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I&#8217;ll be safe, though,
won&#8217;t I?</i> she thought. <i>I&#8217;ll be his wife.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Wife. I&#8217;m getting
married.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Oh Austre, God of Colors. .
. .</i> She thought with sickness. She curled up with her legs
against her chest--her hair growing so white that it seemed to
shine--and lay down on the seat of the carriage, feeling herself
shake as it continued its inevitable path southward.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I think that you should
reconsider your decision, Father,&#8221; Vivenna said calmly,
sitting--as she&#8217;d been trained--with hands in her lap.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;ve considered
and reconsidered, Vivenna,&#8221; King Dedalin said, waving his
hand. &#8220;My mind is made up.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Siri is not suited to
this task.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;She&#8217;ll do
fine,&#8221; her father said, looking through some papers on his
desk. &#8220;All she really needs to do is have a baby. I&#8217;m
certain she&#8217;s &#8216;suited&#8217; to that task.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>What then of my
training?</i> Vivenna thought. <i>Twenty-two years of preparation?
What was that, if the only point in being sent was to provide a
convenient womb?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She kept her hair black, her
voice solemn, her face calm. &#8220;Siri must be very
distraught,&#8221; she said. &#8220;I do not think she&#8217;s
emotionally capable of dealing with this.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her father looked up, his hair
fading a bit red--the black bleeding away like paint running off a
canvas. It showed his annoyance.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>He&#8217;s more distraught
by her departure than he&#8217;s willing to admit.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;This is for the best of
our people, Vivenna,&#8221; her father said, working--with obvious
effort--to turn his hair black again. &#8220;If war comes, Idris
will need you here to lead.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;If war comes, what of
Siri?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her father fell silent.
&#8220;Perhaps it won&#8217;t come,&#8221; he finally said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Austre. . . .</i> Vivenna
thought with shock. <i>He doesn&#8217;t believe that. He thinks
he&#8217;s sent her to her death.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I know what you are
thinking,&#8221; her father said, drawing her attention back to his
eyes. So solemn.&#160; &#8220;How could I choose one over the
other? How could I send Siri to die and leave you here to live. I
didn&#8217;t do it based on personal preference, no matter what
people may think. I did what was best for Idris when this war
comes.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>When</i> this war comes.
Vivenna looked up, meeting his eyes. &#8220;I was going to stop the
war, Father. I was to be the God King&#8217;s bride! I was going to
speak with him, persuade him. I&#8217;ve been trained with the
political knowledge, the understanding of customs,
the--&#8221;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Stop the war?&#8221; her
father asked, cutting in. Only then did Vivenna realize how brash
she must have sounded. She looked away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Vivenna, child,&#8221;
her father said. &#8220;There is no stopping this war. Only the
promise of a daughter of the Royal line kept them away this long.
If I&#8217;d refused to send one, they would have attacked
immediately. Sending Siri may buy us time. Who knows.&#160; Perhaps
I&#8217;ve sent her to safety. Perhaps they will value her
bloodline to the point that they leave her alive--a back up should
the heir she bears pass away.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He grew distant.
&#8220;Yes,&#8221; he continued, &#8220;perhaps it is not Siri we
should be fearing for, but. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>But ourselves,</i> Vivenna
finished in her mind. She was not privy to all of her
father&#8217;s war planning, but she knew enough. War would not
favor Idris. In a conflict with Hallandren, there was little chance
they would win. It would be devastating for their people and their
way of life.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Father, I--</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Please, Vivenna,&#8221;
he said quietly. &#8220;I cannot speak of this further. Go now. We
will discuss later.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Later. After Siri had traveled
even further away, after it would be much more difficult to bring
her back without looking the fools. Yet, Vivenna rose. She was
obedient; it was the way she had been trained. That was one of the
things that had always separated her from her sister.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She left her father&#8217;s
study, closing the door behind her, then walked through the wooden
palace hallways, pretending that she didn&#8217;t see the stares or
hear the whispers. She made her way to her room--which was in a
small, unadorned palace corner--and sat down on her bed, hands in
her lap.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She didn&#8217;t agree at all
with her father&#8217;s assessment. She <i>could</i> have done
something. She was to have been the God King&#8217;s bride. That
would have given her influence, in the court, wouldn&#8217;t it?
Everyone knew that the God King himself was distant when it came to
the politics of his nation, but surely his wife could have played a
role in defending the interests of her people.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And her father had thrown that
away?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>He really must believe that
there is nothing that can be done to stop the invasion.</i> That
turned Siri into simply another political maneuver to buy time.
Something Idris had been doing for decades.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And. . .so what if that was all
that Siri would do? If the sacrifice of a Royal daughter to the
Hallandren was that important, then it still should have been
Vivenna&#8217;s place to go. It had always been <i>her</i> duty to
prepare for her marriage to the God King.&#160; Not Siri&#8217;s,
not Fafen&#8217;s. Vivenna&#8217;s. It was her place to sacrifice
for her people.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;In being saved, she
didn&#8217;t feel grateful. Nor did she feel that she would better
serve Idris. If her father died, Yarda would be far better suited
to rule during wartime than Vivenna. Besides,
Ridger--Vivenna&#8217;s younger brother--had been groomed as heir
for years.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She had been preserved for no
reason. It seemed a punishment, in some ways. She&#8217;d listened,
prepared, learned, and practiced. Everyone said that was perfect.
Why, then, wasn&#8217;t she good enough to serve in her place?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She had no good answer for
herself. She could simply sit and fret, hands in her lap, and face
the awful truth. Her purpose in life had been stolen and given to
another. She was redundant now. Useless.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Unimportant.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What was he
<i>thinking!</i>&#8221; Siri snapped, hanging half out the window
of her carriage as it bounced along.&#160; A young soldier marched
beside the vehicle, looking uncomfortable in the afternoon
light.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I mean really,&#8221;
Siri said. &#8220;Sending <i>me</i> to be married to the Hallandren
king. That&#8217;s silly, isn&#8217;t it? Surely you&#8217;ve heard
about the kinds of things I do. Wandering off when nobody&#8217;s
looking. Ignoring my lessons. I throw angry fits, for Color&#8217;s
sake--and not <i>just</i> when I&#8217;ve been exiled to some
Lifeless monster&#8217;s bed!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The guard glanced at her out of
the corner of his eye, but otherwise gave no reaction. Siri
didn&#8217;t really care. She hung precariously from the window,
feeling the wind play with her hair--long, red, straight--and
stoking her anger. Fury kept her from weeping.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The green spring hills of the
Idris highlands had slowly faded away as the days had passed. In
fact, they were probably in Hallandren already--the border between
the two kingdoms was vague, which wasn&#8217;t surprising,
considering that they&#8217;d been one nation up until the
Manywar.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She eyed the poor guard--whose
only way of dealing with a raving princess appeared to be by
ignoring her. Then she finally slumped back into the carriage. She
shouldn&#8217;t have treated him so, she knew. But, well,
she&#8217;d just been sold off like some hunk of mutton--ransomed
by a document that had been written years before she&#8217;d even
been born. If anyone had a right to a tantrum, it was Siri.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Maybe that&#8217;s the
reason for all of this,</i> she thought, crossing her arms on the
windowsill. <i>Maybe father was tired of my tantrums, and just
wanted to get rid of me.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That seemed a little
far-fetched. There were easier ways to deal with Siri--ways that
didn&#8217;t include sending her to represent Idris in a foreign
court. Why send her, then? Did he really think she&#8217;d do a
good job?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That gave her pause for a
moment. Then she considered how ridiculous it was. Her father
wouldn&#8217;t have assumed that she&#8217;d do a better job than
Vivenna. Nobody did <i>anything</i> better than Vivenna.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri sighed, feeling her hair
turn a pensive brown. She turned from her frustrations an let
herself get distracted by the passing landscape. At least it was
interesting. Hallandren was in the lowlands, a place of tropical
forests and strange, colorful animals. Siri had heard the
descriptions from ramblemen, and even read of the forests in the
occasional book she&#8217;d been forced to read.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She&#8217;d figured she knew
what to expect. Yet, as the hills gave way to deep grasslands and
the trees finally began to sprout up, Siri had begun to realize
that there was something no tome or tale could adequately
describe.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Colors.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;In the highlands, flowers
flower patches were rare and unconnected, as if they understood how
poorly they fit with Idris philosophy. Here, they appeared to be
everywhere. Tiny flowers grew in great blanketing swaths on the
ground. Large, drooping blossoms hung from trees. Even the weeds
appeared to have flowers. Siri would have picked some of them, if
not for the way that the soldiers regarded them with hostility.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>If I feel this anxious,</i>
she realized, <i>they must feel more so.</i> She wasn&#8217;t the
only one who had been sent away from family and friends. When would
these men be allowed to return? Ever? Suddenly, she felt even more
guilty for subjecting the young soldier to her outburst.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I&#8217;ll send them back
when I arrive,</i> she thought. Then she immediately felt her hair
grow white. Sending the men back would leave her alone in a city
filled with Lifeless, Awakeners, and pagans.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Yet, what good would twenty
soldiers do her? Better that someone, at least, be allowed to
return home.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;One would think,&#8221;
Fafen said, &#8220;that you would be happy. After all, you no
longer have to marry a tyrant.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna plopped a berry into
her basket, then moved on to a different bush. Fafen worked on one
nearby. She wore the white robes of a monk, her hair completely
shorn. Fafen was the middle sister in almost every way--midway
between Siri and Vivenna in height, less proper than Vivenna, yet
hardly as careless as Siri. Fafen was a bit curvier than either of
them, which had earned her the eye of several young men in the
village. However, the fact that they would have to become monks
themselves if they wanted to marry her kept them in check.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;If Fafen noticed how popular
she was, she&#8217;d never shown it. She&#8217;d made the decision
to become a monk before her tenth birthday, and her father had
wholeheartedly approved.&#160; Every family was traditionally
obligated to provide one person for the monasteries. It was against
the Five Visions to be selfish, even with one&#8217;s own
blood.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The two sisters continued to
work, gathering berries which Fafen would later distribute to those
in need. The monk&#8217;s fingers were dyed slightly red by the
work. Vivenna wore gloves. That much color on her hands would be
unseemly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; Fafen said,
&#8220;I do think you&#8217;re taking this all wrong. Why, you act
as if you <i>want</i> to go down and be married to that Lifeless
monster.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He&#8217;s not
Lifeless,&#8221; Vivenna said. &#8220;Susebron is Returned, and
there is a large difference.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, but he&#8217;s a
false god. Besides, everyone knows what a terrible creature he
is.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But it was my
<i>place</i> to go and marry him. That is who I am, Fafen. Without
it, I am nothing.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Nonsense,&#8221; Fafen
said. &#8220;You&#8217;ll inherit now, instead of
Ridger.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Thereby unsettling the order
of things even further,</i> Vivenna thought. <i>What right do I
have to take his place from him?</i> She didn&#8217;t want to be
queen. She just wanted to do what she&#8217;d been born, trained,
and crafted to do.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She allowed the conversation to
lapse, however. She&#8217;d been arguing the point for several
minutes now, and it wouldn&#8217;t be polite to continue.
&#160;Polite. &#160;Rarely before had Vivenna felt so frustrated at
having to be polite. Her emotions were was growing rather. .
.inconvenient.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She kept her hair black and her
thoughts to herself. Fafen made good points--points that any Idrian
would have made. Nobody would <i>want</i> to go and marry the God
King. Vivenna should be relieved that she didn&#8217;t have to.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And yet, she wasn&#8217;t.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What of Siri?&#8221; she
found herself saying. &#8220;You&#8217;re happy that this happened
to her?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Fafen looked up, then frowned a
little to herself. She had a tendency to avoid thinking things
through unless she was confronted with them directly. Vivenna felt
a little ashamed for making such a blunt comment, but with Fafen,
there often wasn&#8217;t any other way.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You do have a
point,&#8221; Fafen said. &#8220;I don&#8217;t see why
<i>anyone</i> had to be sent.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The treaty,&#8221;
Vivenna said. &#8220;It protects our people.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Austre protects our
people,&#8221; Fafen said, moving on to another bush.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Will he protect Siri?</i>
Vivenna though. Poor, innocent, capricious Siri. She&#8217;d never
learned to control herself; she&#8217;d be eaten alive in the
Hallandren Court of Gods. Siri wouldn&#8217;t understand the
politics, the backstabbing, the false faces and lies.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She would also be forced to
bear Susebron&#8217;s child, the next God King of Hallandren.
Performing that duty was not something Vivenna had looked forward
to. It would have been a sacrifice. Yet it would have been
<i>her</i> sacrifice, given willingly for the safety of her people.
Even if her father was right and the war did come, even if that
meant her execution by the Hallandren in an attempt to crush Idrian
morale, she would have given it.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Such thoughts continued to
pester Vivenna as she and Fafen finished with the berry picking,
then moved down the hillside back toward the village. Fafen, like
all monks, dedicated all of her work to the good of the people. She
watched flocks, harvested food, and cleaned houses for those who
could not do it themselves.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Without a duty of her own,
Vivenna seemed to have little purpose. And yet, as she considered,
there <i>was</i> someone who--perhaps--still needed her. Someone
who had left a week before, teary-eyed and frightened, looking to
her big sister with desperation.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna wasn&#8217;t needed in
Hallandren; she&#8217;d determined that, whatever her father said.
She was useless here. But she <i>did</i> know the people, cultures,
and society of Hallandren.&#160; And--as she followed Fafen onto
the village road--an idea began to form in Vivenna&#8217;s
head.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;One that was not, by any
stretch of the imagination, polite.</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Three</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong didn&#8217;t remember
dying.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;His priests, however, assured
him that his death had been extremely brave. Noble. Grand.
Heroic.&#160; But that was the case with all of the Hallandren
gods. One did not Return unless one died in a way that exemplified
the great virtues of human existence.&#160; That was why the
Iridescent Tones sent the Returned back; they acted examples, and
blessings, to the people who still lived.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Each God represented something.
An ideal. Lightsong had died in a way that displayed extreme
bravery. Or, at least, that was what his priests told him. It had
always seemed convenient to Lightsong that he couldn&#8217;t
remember how he had died, just like he couldn&#8217;t remember
anything of his life before he had become a god.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong groaned softly,
unable to sleep any longer. He rolled over, feeling weak as he sat
up in his majestic bed. Visions and memories pestered his mind, and
he shook his head, trying to clear away the fog of sleep.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Servants entered, responding
wordlessly to their god&#8217;s needs. God. He was one of the
younger, for he&#8217;d Returned only five years before. There were
some two dozen deities in the Court of Gods, and many were far more
important--and far more politically savvy--than Lightsong. And
above them all reigned Susebron, the God King of Hallandren.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Even a lesser deity such as
Lightsong merited an enormous palace. He slept in a room draped
with silks, dyed with bright reds and yellows. His palace held
dozens of different chambers, decorated and furnished according to
his whims. Hundreds of servants and priests to saw to his
needs--whether he wanted them seen to or not.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>All of this,</i> he thought
as he stood, <i>because I couldn&#8217;t figure out how to die.</i>
Standing made him just a bit dizzy. It was his feastday. He would
lack strength until he was fed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Servants approached carrying
brilliant red and gold robes. As they entered his aura, each
servant--skin, hair, clothing, and garments--burst with an inner
color. The saturated hues grew far more resplendent than any dye or
paint could produce. That was an effect of Lightsong&#8217;s innate
BioChroma: he had enough Breath to fill thousands of people. He saw
little use to it. He couldn&#8217;t use it animate objects or
corpses; he was a god, not an Awakener. He couldn&#8217;t give--or
even loan--his deific Breath away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Well, except once.&#160; That
would, however, kill him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The servants continued their
ministrations, draping him with cloth. Lightsong was a good head
and a half taller than anyone else in the room. He was also broad
of shoulders, with a muscular physique that he didn&#8217;t really
deserve, considering the amount of time he spent idle.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Did you sleep well, your
grace?&#8221; a voice asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong turned. Llarimar, his
high priest, was a tall, portly man with spectacles and a calm
demeanor. His hands were nearly hidden by the deep sleeves of his
gold and red robe, and he carried a thick tome. Both robes and tome
burst with color as they entered Lightsong&#8217;s aura.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I slept fantastically,
Scoot,&#8221; Lightsong said, yawning. &#8220;A night full of
nightmares and dreams, just like always. Terribly
restful.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priest raised an eyebrow.
&#8220;Scoot?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; Lightsong
said.&#160; &#8220;I&#8217;ve decided to give you a new nickname.
Scoot. Seems to fit you, the way you&#8217;re always scooting
around, poking into things and such.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I am honored, your
grace,&#8221; Llarimar said, seating himself on a chair.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Colors,</i> Lightsong
thought. <i>Doesn&#8217;t he ever get annoyed?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar opened his tome.
&#8220;Shall we begin?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;If we must,&#8221;
Lightsong said. The servants finished tying ribbons, doing clasps,
and draping silks.&#160; Each bowed and retreated to the sides of
the room.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar picked up his quill.
&#8220;What, then, do you remember of your dreams last
night?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, you
know,&#8221;&#160; Lightsong flopped back onto one of his couches,
lounging and relaxing. &#8220;Nothing really important.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar pursed his lips in
displeasure. Other servants began to file in, bearing various
dishes of food. Mundane, human food. As a Returned, Lightsong
didn&#8217;t need to eat such things--they would not give him
strength or banish his fatigue. &#160;They were an indulgence, not
a need. In a short time, he would dine on something far more. .
.divine. It would give him strength enough to live for another
week.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Please try to remember
the dreams, your grace,&#8221; Llarimar said in his polite, yet
disapproving, way.&#160; &#8220;No matter how unremarkable they may
seem.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong sighed, looking up at
the ceiling. It was painted with a mural, of course. This one
depicted three fields enclosed by stone pastures. It was a vision
one of his predecessors had seen, or so he was told. Lightsong
closed his eyes, trying to focus. &#8220;I. . .was walking by a
beach,&#8221; he said. &#8220;And a ship was leaving without me. I
don&#8217;t know where it was going.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar&#8217;s pen began to
scratch quickly. He was probably finding all kinds of symbolism in
the memory. &#8220;Were there any colors?&#8221; the priest
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The ship had a red
sail,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;The sand was brown, of course,
and the trees green.&#160; For some reason, I think the ocean water
was red, like the ship.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar scribbled
furiously--he always got excited when Lightsong remembered colors.
Lightsong lounged back again, opening his eyes and looking up at
the ceiling and its brightly colored fields. He reached over idly,
plucking some cherries off a servant&#8217;s plate.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong was a terrible god.
He knew it. Nobody told him so, but he was wise enough to see the
truth.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Why should he begrudge the
people his dreams? Even if he found divination foolish, he had no
right to complain. He was remarkably fortunate. He had a deific
BioChromatic aura, a physique that any man would envy, and enough
luxury for ten kings. Of all the people in the world, he had the
least right to be difficult.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was just that. . .well, he
was probably the world&#8217;s only god who didn&#8217;t believe in
his own religion.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Was there anything else
to the dream, your grace?&#8221; Llarimar asked, looking up from
his book.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You were there,
Scoot.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar paused, paling just
slightly. &#8220;I. . .was?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong nodded. &#8220;You
apologized for bothering me all the time and keeping me from my
debauchery.&#160; Then, you brought me a big bottle of wine and did
a dance. It was really quite remarkable.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar regarded him with a
flat stare.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong sighed. &#8220;No,
there was nothing else. Just the boat. Even that is
fading.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar nodded, rising and
shooing back the servants--though, of course, they remained in the
room, hovering with their plates of food, wine, and fruit, should
any of it be wanted. &#8220;Shall we be on with it then, your
grace?&#8221; Llarimar asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong sighed, then rose,
feeling exhausted. A servant scuttled forward to redo one of the
clasps on his robe, which had come undone as he sat. Lightsong fell
into step beside Llarimar, towering a good foot over the priest.
The furniture and doorways, however, were built to fit
Lightsong&#8217;s increased size, so it was the servants and
priests who seemed out of place in the palace.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They passed from room to room.
There were no hallways. Hallways were for servants, and they ran in
a square around the outside of the building. Lightsong walked on
rugs from the northern nations, passing the finest pottery from
across the inner sea. Each room was hung with paintings and
brightly written poems, created by Hallandren&#8217;s finest
artists.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;At the center of the palace was
a small, square room that deviated from the standard reds and golds
of Lightsong&#8217;s motif. This one was bright with ribbons of
darker colors--deep blues, greens, and maroons. Each was a true
color, directly on hue, as only a person who had obtained the Third
Heightening could distinguish.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;As Lightsong stepped into the
room, the colors blazed to life. They became brighter, yet somehow
remained dark. The maroon became a more true maroon, the navy a
more powerful navy.&#160; Dark yet bright, a contrast only Breath
could inspire.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;In the center of the room was a
child.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Why does it always have to
be a child?</i> Lightsong thought.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar and the servants
waited. Lightsong stepped forward, and the little girl glanced to
the side, where a couple of priests stood in red and gold robes.
They nodded encouragingly. The girl looked back toward Lightsong,
obviously nervous.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Here now,&#8221;
Lightsong said, trying to sound encouraging. &#8220;There&#8217;s
nothing to fear.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And yet, the girl trembled.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lecture after
lecture--delivered by Llarimar, who had claimed that they were
<i>not</i> lectures, for one did not lecture gods--drifted through
Lightsong&#8217;s head. There was nothing to fear from the Returned
Gods of the Hallandren. The gods were a blessing. They provided
visions of the future, as well as leadership and wisdom. All they
needed to subsist was one thing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Breath.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong hesitated, but his
weakness was coming to a head. He felt dizzy. Cursing himself
quietly, he knelt down on one knee, taking the girl&#8217;s face in
his oversized hands. She began to cry, but she said the words,
clear and distinct as she had been taught. &#8220;My life to yours.
My Breath become yours.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her Breath flowed out, puffing
in the air. It traveled along Lightsong&#8217;s arm--the touch was
necessary--and he drew it in. His weakness vanished, the dizziness
evaporated. Both were replaced with crisp clarity. He felt
invigorated, revitalized, <i>alive.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The girl grew dull. The color
of her face and eyes faded slightly, though the change was very
difficult to see. Her brown hair lost some of its luster, her
cheeks became more bland.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>It&#8217;s nothing,</i> he
thought. <i>Most people say they can&#8217;t even notice that their
Breath is gone.&#160; She&#8217;ll live a full life. Happy. Her
family well paid for her sacrifice.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And Lightsong would live for
another week. His aura didn&#8217;t grow stronger from Breath upon
which he fed; that was another difference between a Returned and an
Awakener. The latter were sometimes regarded as inferior, man-made
approximations of the Returned.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Without a new Breath each week,
Lightsong would die. Many Returned outside of Hallandren lived only
eight days. Yet with a donated Breath a week, they could continue
on, ageless, with perfect bodies and minds. They would live, seeing
visions at night which would supposedly provide divinations of the
future. Hence the Court of the Gods, filled with its palaces, where
gods could be nurtured, protected, and--most importantly--fed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Priests hustled forward to lead
the girl out of the room. <i>It is nothing to her,</i> Lightsong
told himself again. <i>Nothing at all. . .
.</i>&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And still, as she met his eyes
as she left, and he could see that the twinkle was gone from
them.&#160; She had become a Drab. A Dull, or a Faded One. A person
without Breath. It would never grow back.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priests took her away.
Lightsong turned to Llarimar, feeling guilty at his sudden energy.
&#8220;All right,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Let&#8217;s see the
Offerings.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar raised an eyebrow over
his bespectacled eyes. &#8220;You&#8217;re accommodating all of a
sudden.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I need to give something
back,</i> Lightsong thought. <i>Even if it&#8217;s something
useless.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They passed through several
more rooms of red and gold, most of which were perfectly square
with doors on all four sides. Near the eastern side of the palace,
they entered a long, thin room. It was completely white--something
very unusual in Hallandren. The walls were lined with paintings and
poems. The servants stayed outside; only Llarimar joined Lightsong
as he stepped up to the first painting.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well?&#8221; Llarimar
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was a pastoral painting of
the jungle, with drooping palms and colorful flowers. There were
some of these plants in the courtyards around the Court of Gods,
which was why Lightsong recognized them. He&#8217;d never actually
been to the jungle. That he remembered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s all
right,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;Not my favorite. Makes me
think of the outside. I wish I could visit.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar raised an
eyebrow.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221; Lightsong
said. &#8220;The Court gets a bit old sometimes.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Not much wine in the
forest, your grace.&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I could make some,
I&#8217;m sure. Ferment. . .something.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m sure,&#8221;
Llarimar said, nodding to one of his aids outside the room. The
lesser priest scribbled down what Lightsong had said about the
painting. Somewhere, there was a city patron who sought a blessing
from Lightsong. It probably had to do with bravery--perhaps the
patron was planning to propose marriage, or maybe he was a merchant
about to sign a risky business deal. The priests would interpret
Lightsong&#8217;s opinion of the painting, then give the person an
augury--either for good or for ill--along with the exact words
Lightsong had said. Either way, the act of sending a painting to
please the god would gain the patron some measure of good
fortune.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Supposedly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong moved away from the
painting. A lesser priest rushed forward, removing it. Most likely,
the patron hadn&#8217;t painted it himself, but had instead
commissioned it. The better a painting was, the better a reaction
it tended to get from the from the gods.&#160; One&#8217;s future,
it appeared, could be influenced by how much one could pay
one&#8217;s artist.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I shouldn&#8217;t be so
cynical,</i> Lightsong thought. <i>Without this system, I&#8217;d
have died five years ago.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Five years ago he <i>had</i>
died. He still didn&#8217;t know what had killed him, and nobody
would tell him, even if they all agreed that it had been a heroic
way to pass.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Or, was it all rhetoric?
Perhaps the reason nobody was allowed to talk about his former life
was because they didn&#8217;t want anyone to know that Lightsong
the Brave had actually died from a stomach cramp.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;To the side, the lesser priest
disappeared with the jungle painting. It would be burned. Such
offerings were made specifically for the intended God, and only
he--besides a few of his priests--was allowed to see them. He moved
along to the next work of art on the wall. It was actually a poem,
written in the artisan&#8217;s script. The dots of color brightened
as Lightsong approached. The Hallandren artisan&#8217;s script was
a specialized system of writing that wasn&#8217;t based on form,
but on color. A dot of one color meant one letter and a dot of a
different color meant a different letter. That, combined with some
double dots--one of each color--created an alphabet that was a
nightmare for the colorblind.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Few people in Hallandren would
admit to having <i>that</i> particular disease. At least, that was
what Lightsong had heard. He wondered if the priests knew just how
much their Gods gossiped about the outside world.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The poem wasn&#8217;t a very
good one, obviously composed by a peasant, who had then paid
someone else to translate it to the artisan&#8217;s script. The
simple dots were a sign of this.&#160; True poets used more
elaborate symbols, continuous lines that changed color or colorful
glyphs that formed pictures. A lot could be done with letters that
could change shape without losing their meaning.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Getting the colors right was a
delicate art, one that required the Third Heightening or better to
perfect. The Third Heightening--the level of Breath at which a
person gained the ability to sense perfect hues of color, just like
the Second Heightening gave someone perfect pitch. Returned were of
the Eight Heightening. Lightsong didn&#8217;t know what it was like
to live without the ability to instantly recognize exact shades of
color and sound. He could tell an ideal red from one that had been
mixed with even one extra drop of white paint.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He gave the peasant&#8217;s
poem as good a review as he could, though he generally felt an
impulse to be honest when he looked at Offerings. It seemed his
duty, and for some reason it was one of the few things he took
seriously.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They continued down the line,
Lightsong giving reviews of the various paintings and poems. The
wall was remarkably full this day. Was there a feast or celebration
he hadn&#8217;t heard about? By the time they neared the end of the
line, Lightsong was getting tired of looking at art, though his
body--fueled by the child&#8217;s Breath--continued to feel strong
and exhilarated.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong stopped before the
final painting. It was an abstract work, a style that was growing
more and more popular lately--particularly in paintings sent to
him, since he&#8217;d given favorable reviews to others in the
past. He almost gave this one a poor grade simply because of that.
It was good to keep the priests guessing at what would please him,
or so some of the gods said. Lightsong sensed that many of them
were far more calculating in the way that they gave their reviews,
intentionally adding cryptic meanings.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong didn&#8217;t have the
patience for things like that, especially since all anyone really
ever seemed to want from him was honesty. He gave this last
painting the time it deserved. The canvas was thick with paint,
every inch colored with large, fat strokes of the brush. The
prominent hue was a deep red, almost a crimson, that Lightsong
immediately knew was a red-blue mixture with a hint of black in
it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The lines of color overlapped,
one atop another, almost in a progression. Kind of like. .
.waves.&#160; Lightsong frowned. If he looked at it right, it
looked like a sea. And, could that be a ship in the center?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vague impressions from his
dream returned to him. A red sea. The ship, leaving.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I&#8217;m imagining
things,</i> he told himself. &#8220;Good color,&#8221; he said.
&#8220;Nice patterns. It puts me at peace, yet has a tension to it
as well. I approve.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar seemed to like this
response. He nodded as the lesser priest--who stood a distance
away--recorded Lightsong&#8217;s words.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So,&#8221; Lightsong
said.&#160; &#8220;That&#8217;s it, I assume?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, your
grace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>One duty left,</i> he
thought. Now that Offerings were done, it would be time to move on
to the final--and least appealing--of his daily tasks.
&#160;Petitions. He had to get through them before he could get to
more important activities, like taking a nap.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar didn&#8217;t lead the
way toward the petition hall, however. He simply waved a lesser
priest over, then began to flip through some pages on a
clipboard.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well?&#8221; Lightsong
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well what, your
grace?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Petitions.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar shook his head.
&#8220;You aren&#8217;t hearing Petitions today, your grace.
Remember?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No. I have <i>you</i> to
remember things like that for me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, then,&#8221;
Llarimar said, flipping a page over, &#8220;consider it officially
remembered that you have no Petitions today. Your priests will be
otherwise employed.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They will?&#8221;
Lightsong demanded. &#8220;Doing what?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Kneeling reverently in
the courtyard, your grace. Our new queen arrives today.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong froze. <i>I really
need to pay more attention to politics.</i>
&#8220;Today?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Indeed, your grace. Our
lord the God King will be married.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So soon?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;As soon as she arrives,
your grace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Interesting,</i> Lightsong
thought. <i>Susebron getting a wife.</i> The God King would be the
only of the Returned who could marry. Returned couldn&#8217;t
parent children--save, of course, for the king, who had never drawn
a breath as a living man. Lightsong had always found the
distinction odd.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your grace,&#8221;
Llarimar said. &#8220;We will need a Lifeless Command in order to
arrange our troops on the field outside the city to welcome the
queen.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong raised an eyebrow.
&#8220;We plan to attack her?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar gave him a flat
look.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong chuckled.&#160;
&#8220;Fledgling fruit,&#8221; he said, giving up one of the
Command phrases that would let others control the city&#8217;s
Lifeless. It wasn&#8217;t the core Command, of course. &#160;The
phrase he&#8217;d given to Llarimar would only allow a person to
control the Lifeless in non-combat situations, and it would expire
one day after its first use.&#160; Lightsong often though that the
convoluted system of Commands used to control the Lifeless was
needlessly complex. However, being one of the four Gods to hold
Lifeless commands <i>did</i> make him rather important at
times.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priests began to chat
quietly about preparations and the new queen. Lightsong waited,
still thinking about Susebron and the impending wedding. He folded
his arms and rested against the side of the doorway.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Scoot?&#8221; he
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, your
grace?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Did I have a wife?&#160;
Before I died, I mean.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar hesitated.&#160;
&#8220;You know I cannot speak of your life before your Return,
Lightsong. Knowledge of your past won&#8217;t do anyone any
good.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong leaned his head back,
resting it against the wall, looking up at the white ceiling.
&#8220;I. . .remember a face, sometimes,&#8221; he said softly.
&#8220;A beautiful, youthful face. I think it might have been
her.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priests hushed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Inviting brown
hair,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;Red lips, three shades shy of
pure, but with a deep beauty of their own. Dark tan
skin.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A priest scuttled forward with
the red tome, and Llarimar started writing furiously. He
didn&#8217;t prompt for more information, he simply took down
Lightsong&#8217;s words as they came.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong fell silent, turning
away from the men and their scribbling pens. <i>What does it
matter?</i> he thought. <i>That life is gone. Instead, I get to be
a god. Regardless of my belief in the religion itself, the perks
are nice.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He walked away, leaving
Llarimar. Yet, he was trailed by a fleet of servants and lesser
priests who would see to his needs. Offerings done, dreams
recorded, and petitions canceled, Lightsong was free to pursue his
own activities.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He didn&#8217;t return to his
main chambers. Instead, he made his way out onto his patio deck and
waved for a pavilion to be set up for him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;If a new queen was going to
arrive today, he wanted to get a good look at her.&#160;<br clear=
"all" style='page-break-before:always' /></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Four</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri&#8217;s carriage rolled to
a stop outside of T&#8217;Telir city, capital of Hallandren. She
stared out the window and realized something very, very
intimidating: her people had <i>no</i> idea what it meant to be
ostentatious. Flowers weren&#8217;t ostentatious. Ten soldiers
protecting a carriage was not ostentatious. Throwing a tantrum in
public wasn&#8217;t ostentatious.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The field of forty thousand
soldiers, dressed in brilliant blue and gold, standing in perfect
rows, spears raised high with blue tassels flapping in the wind. .
.<i>that</i> was ostentatious. The twin line of cavalrymen atop
enormous, thick-hoofed horses, both men and beasts draped with
golden cloth that shimmered in the sun.&#160; <i>That</i> was
ostentatious. The massive city, so large it made her mind numb to
consider it, domes and spires and painted walls all competing to
draw her attention. <i>That</i> was ostentatious.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She&#8217;d thought that she
was prepared. The carriage had passed through cities as
they&#8217;d made their way to T&#8217;Telir. She&#8217;d seen the
painted houses, the bright colors and patterns. She&#8217;d stayed
at inns with plush beds. She&#8217;d eaten foods mixed with spices
that made her sneeze.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She hadn&#8217;t been prepared
for her reception at T&#8217;Telir. Not at all.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Blessed Lord of Colors. . .
.</i> she thought.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her soldiers pulled in tight
around the carriage, as if wishing they could climb inside and hide
from the overwhelming sight. T&#8217;Telir was built up against the
shores of the Bright Sea, a large, landlocked body of water. She
could see it in the distance, reflecting the sunlight, strikingly
true to its name.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A figure in blue and silver
rode up to her carriage. His deep robes weren&#8217;t simple, like
the monks wore back in Idris. These had massive, peaked shoulders
that almost made the costume look like armor. He wore a matching
headdress. That, combined with the brilliant colors and exaggerated
layers of the robes, made Siri want to shrink back into her
carriage. She felt her hair paling to a colorless white.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The figure bowed.&#160;
&#8220;Lady Sisirinah Royal,&#8221; the man said in a deep voice,
&#8220;I am Tridees, high priest of his Grace, Susebron the
Majestic, Returned God and King of Hallandren. You will accept this
token honor guard to guide you to the Court of Gods.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Token?</i> Siri thought.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priest was didn&#8217;t
wait for a response; Siri felt too unsettled to give one anyway.
Tridees spun his horse and started back down the highway toward the
city. Her carriage rolled after him, her soldiers marching
uncomfortably around the vehicle. The jungle gave way to sporadic
bunches of palm trees, and Siri was surprised to see how much sand
was mixed with the dirt. Her view of the landscape soon grew
obstructed by the vast field of soldiers who stood at attention on
either side of the road.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Austre, God of
Colors!&#8221; one of Siri&#8217;s guards whispered.
&#8220;They&#8217;re Lifeless!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri&#8217;s hair--which had
begun to drift to auburn--snapped back to fearful white. He was
right. Under their colorful uniforms, the Hallandren troops were a
dull grey. Their eyes, their skin, even their hair: all had been
drained completely of color, leaving behind a dull monochrome.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Those can&#8217;t be
Lifeless!</i> she thought. <i>They look like men!</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She&#8217;d imagined Lifeless
as skeletal creatures, the flesh rotting and falling from the
bones. They were, after all, men who had died, then been brought
back to life as mindless soldiers by BioChromatic Breath. But these
soldiers that she passed looked so human. There was nothing to
distinguish them save for their lack of color and the stiff
expressions on their faces.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;As she watched closer, she
noticed other differences. They stood unnaturally motionless.
&#160;No shuffling, no breathing, no quivers of muscle or limb.
Even their eyes were still. They seemed like statues, particularly
considering their grey skin.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>And. . .I&#8217;m going to
marry one of these things?</i> Siri thought. But no, Returned were
different from Lifeless, and both were different from Drabs, which
were people who had lost their Breath. She could vaguely remember a
time when someone back in her village had Returned. It had been
nearly ten years back, and her father hadn&#8217;t let her visit
the man. She did recall that he&#8217;d been able to speak and
interact with his family, even if he hadn&#8217;t been able to
remember them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He&#8217;d died again a week
later.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Eventually, her carriage passed
through the ranks of Lifeless. The city walls were next; they were
immense and daunting, yet they almost looked more artistic than
functional. The walltop curved in massive half-circles, like
rolling hills, and the rim was plated with a golden metal. The
gates themselves were in the form of two twisting, lithe sea
creatures who curved up in a massive archway.&#160; Siri passed
through them, the guard of Hallandren cavalrymen--who appeared to
be living men--accompanying her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She had always thought of
Hallandren as a place of death. Her impressions were based on
stories told by passing ramblemen or by old women at the winter
hearth. They spoke of city walls built from skulls, then painted
with sloppy, ugly streaks of color.&#160; She&#8217;d imagined the
buildings inside splattered with different clashing hues.&#160;
Obscene.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She&#8217;d been wrong.&#160;
True, there <i>was</i> an arrogance to T&#8217;Telir. A grandness.
Each new wonder seemed as if it wanted to grab her attention and
shake her about by her eyes. People lined the street--more people
than Siri had seen in her entire life--crowding together to watch
her carriage. If there were poor among them, Siri couldn&#8217;t
tell, for they all wore bright colored clothing. Some did wear more
exaggerated outfits--probably merchants, since Hallandren was said
to have no nobility beyond its Gods--but even the simplest of
clothing had a cheerful brightness to it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Many of the painted buildings
were did clash to her eyes. Yet, none of it was sloppy. There was
an eye for craftsmanship and art to everything from the
storefronts, to the people, to the statures of mighty soldiers that
frequently stood on comers. It was terribly overwhelming. Garish. A
vibrant, enthusiastic garishness. Siri found herself smiling--her
hair turning a tentative blonde--though she felt a headache coming
on. She could almost see beauty in it all.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Maybe. . .maybe this is why
Father sent me,</i> Siri thought. <i>Training or no training,
Vivenna would have never been able to fit in, but I&#8217;ve always
been far too interested in color.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It made sense. Strange sense,
but everything about her life had been strange lately. Her father
was a good king with good instincts. What if--after twenty years of
raising and training Vivenna--he had come to the conclusion that
she wasn&#8217;t the right one to help Idris? Was that why, for the
first time in their lives, Father had chosen Siri over Vivenna?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>But what am I supposed to
do?</i> Siri thought as the carriage moved toward the southern
section of the city. She knew that everyone feared that Hallandren
would invade Idris. However, she couldn&#8217;t see her father
sending one of his daughters if he believed war were close. Perhaps
he hoped that she&#8217;d be able to help tensions between the
kingdoms?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She felt she was probably right
in her guess, but that only added to her anxiety. Duty was
something unfamiliar to her, and not a little unsettling. Her
father had trusted her with the very fate and lives of his people.
She couldn&#8217;t run, escape, or hide.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Particularly from her own
wedding.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;As her hair twinged white with
fear at what was coming, she turned her attention to the city
again, trying to distract herself. That wasn&#8217;t hard,
considering how demanding the city&#8217;s sights were. It was
enormous, sprawling like a tired beast curled around and over
hills. As the carriage climbed the southern section of town, she
could see--through gaps in the buildings--that the Bright Sea broke
into a bay before the city. T&#8217;Telir curved around the bay,
running right up to the water, forming a crescent shape. The city
wall, then, only had to run in a half-circle, abutting the sea,
keeping the city boxed in.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It didn&#8217;t seem
cramped.&#160; There was a lot of open space in the city--walkways
and gardens, large swaths of unused land. Palms lined many of the
streets and other foliage was common.&#160; Plus, with the cool
breeze coming over the sea, the air was a lot more temperate than
she had expected. The road led toward something of a sea-side
overlook, a small hill plateau that had an excellent view. Except,
the entire plateau appeared to be surrounded by a large,
obstructive wall. Siri watched with growing apprehension as the
gates to this smaller, city-within-a-city opened up to let the
carriage, soldiers, and priests enter.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The common people stayed
outside.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;There was another wall inside,
a kind of barrier to keep anyone from seeing in through the gate.
The procession turned left and rounded the blinding wall, entering
the Hallandren Court of Gods: an enclosed, green-grassed courtyard.
Several dozen enormous mansions dominated the enclosure, each one
painted a distinct color. At the far end of the court was a massive
black structure, much taller than the other building.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The walled courtyard was quiet
and still. Siri could see figures sitting on balconies, watching
her carriage roll across the grass. In front of each of the
palaces, a small fleet of men and women knelt prostrate on the
grass. The colors of their clothing matched that of their building.
Siri spared little time to study them.&#160; Instead, she nervously
peered at the large, black building. It was pyramidal, with
step-like blocks on the outside. &#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Black,</i> she thought.
<i>In a city of color.</i> Her hair paled even further. She
suddenly wished she&#8217;d been more devout during her life. She
doubted Austre was all that pleased with her outbursts, and she
even had trouble naming the Five Visions most days.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But, he&#8217;d watch over her
in the name of her people, wouldn&#8217;t he?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The procession pulled to a stop
at the base of the enormous, triangular building. Siri looked up
through the carriage window, seeing the clefts and knobs at the
summit, which made the architecture seem top-heavy. She felt as if
the dark blocks would come tumbling down in an avalanche to bury
her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priest rode his horse back
up to Siri&#8217;s window. The cavalrymen waited quietly, the
shuffling of their beasts the only sound in the massive, open
courtyard.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We have arrived,
Vessel,&#8221; the man said. &#8220;As soon as we enter the
building, you will be prepared and taken to your
husband.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Husband?&#8221; Siri
asked uncomfortably. &#8220;Won&#8217;t there be a wedding
ceremony?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priest smirked. &#8220;A
ceremony? The God King does not need ceremonial justification. You
became his wife the moment he desired it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri shivered. &#8220;I was
just hoping that maybe I could see him, before, you know. . .
.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priest shot her a harsh
look. &#8220;The God King does not perform for your whims, woman.
You are blessed above all others, for you will be allowed to touch
him--if only at <i>his</i> discretion. Do not pretend that you are
anything other than you are. You have come because he desires it,
and you will obey. Otherwise, you will be put aside and another
will chosen in your place--which, I think, might bode unfavorably
for your rebel friends in the highlands.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priest spun his horse, then
clopped his way toward a large stone ramp, leading up to the
building. The carriage lurched into motion, and Siri was drawn
toward her fate.</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Five</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>This will complicate
things,</i> Vasher thought, standing in the shadows atop the wall
that enclosed the Court of the Gods.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>What&#8217;s wrong?</i>
Nightblood asked. <i>So the rebels actually sent a princess.
Doesn&#8217;t change your plans.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher waited, watching, as the
new queen&#8217;s carriage crept up the incline and disappeared
into the palace&#8217;s maw.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>What?</i> Nightblood
demanded. Even still, after all of these years, the sword reacted
like a child in many ways.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>She&#8217;ll be used,</i>
Vasher thought. <i>I doubt we&#8217;ll be able to get through this
without dealing with her.</i> He hadn&#8217;t believed that the
Idris would actually send royal blood back to T&#8217;Telir.
They&#8217;d given up a pawn of terrible value.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher turned away from the
Court, wrapping his sandaled foot around one of the banners that
ran down the outside of the wall. Then he released his Breath.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Lower me,&#8221; he
Commanded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The large tapestry--crafted
from wool threads--sucked hundreds of Breath from him. It
hadn&#8217;t the form of a man, and it was massive in size. Vasher
now had enough Breath to spend in such ways.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The tapestry twisted, a thing
alive, and formed a hand, which picked Vasher up. Like always, the
Awakening tried to imitate the form of a human--looking closely at
the twistings and undulations of the fabric, Vasher could see
outlines of muscles and even veins. &#160;There was no reason for
them; the Breath animated the fabric, and no muscles were necessary
for it to move.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The tapestry carefully lowered
Vasher down, pinching him by one shoulder, placing his feet on the
street. &#8220;Your Breath to Mine,&#8221; Vasher Commanded. The
large banner-tapestry lost its form immediately, life vanishing,
and it fluttered back against the wall.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Some few people paused in the
street. Yet, they were interested, not awed. This was
T&#8217;Telir, home of the gods themselves. Men with upwards of a
thousand Breaths were uncommon, but not unheard of. The people
gawked--like peasants in other kingdoms might pause to watch the
carriage of a passing lord--but then they moved on with their daily
activities.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The attention was unavoidable.
Though Vasher still dressed in his standard outfit--ragged
trousers, well-worn cloak despite the heat, a rope wrapped several
times around his waist for a belt--he now caused colors to brighten
dramatically when he was near. The change would be noticeable to
normal people and blatantly obvious to those of at least the First
Heightening.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;His days of being able to hide
and skulk were gone. He&#8217;d have to grow accustomed to being
noticed again. That was one of the reasons he was glad to be in
T&#8217;Telir. The city was large enough and filled with enough
oddities--from Lifeless soldiers, to Awakened objects serving
everyday functions--that he probably wouldn&#8217;t stand out
<i>too</i> much.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Of course, that didn&#8217;t
take Nightblood into account. Vasher moved through the crowds,
carrying the overly-heavy sword in one hand, sheathed point nearly
dragging on the ground behind him. The weapon drew its own
reactions. Some people would shy away from it immediately. Others
would watch it, eyes lingering far too long.&#160; Perhaps it was
time to stuff Nightblood back in the pack.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Oh, no you don&#8217;t,</i>
Nightblood said. <i>Don&#8217;t even start thinking about that.
I&#8217;ve been locked away for too long.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>What does it matter to
you?</i> Vasher thought.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I need fresh air,</i>
Nightblood said. <i>And sunlight.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You&#8217;re a sword,</i>
Vasher thought, <i>not a palm tree.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Nightblood fell silent. He was
smart enough to realize that he was not a person, but he
didn&#8217;t like being confronted with that fact. It tended to put
him in a sullen mood. That suited Vasher just fine.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He made his way to a restaurant
a few streets down from the Court of Gods. This was one thing he
<i>had</i> missed about T&#8217;Telir: restaurants. In most cities,
there were few dining options. If you intended to stay for a while,
you hired a local woman to give you meals at her table. If you
stayed a short time, you ate what your innkeeper gave you.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;In T&#8217;Telir, however, the
population was large enough--and rich enough--to support dedicated
food providers. Restaurants still hadn&#8217;t caught on in the
rest of the world, but in T&#8217;Telir, they were commonplace.
Vasher already had a booth reserved, and the waiter nodded him to
the spot. Vasher settled himself, resting Nightblood up beside the
wall.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The sword was stolen within a
minute of his letting go of it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher ignored the thievery,
sitting quietly as the waiter brought him a warm cup of citrus tea.
Vasher sipped at the sweetened liquid, sucking on the bit of a
rind, wondering why in the world a people who lived in a tropical
lowland preferred heated teas.&#160; After a few minutes, his life
sense warned him that he was being watched.&#160; Eventually, that
same sense alerted him that someone was approaching. Vasher slipped
his dagger from his belt with his free hand as he sipped his
tea.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priest sat down opposite
Vasher in the booth. He wore street clothing, rather than religious
robes. However--perhaps unconsciously--he had still chosen to wear
the white and green of his deity. Vasher slipped his dagger back
into its sheath, masking the sound by taking a loud sip.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priest, Bebid, looked about
nervously. He had enough of a Breath Aura to indicate that
he&#8217;d reached the First Heightening. It was where most
people--those who could afford to buy Breath--stopped. That much
Breath would extend their lifespan by a good decade or so and give
them an increased life sense. It would also let them see Breath
Auras and distinguish other Awakeners, and--in a pinch--let them to
a little Awakening themselves. A decent trade for spending enough
money to feed a peasant family for some fifty years.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well?&#8221; Vasher
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bebid actually jumped at the
sound. Vasher sighed, closing his eyes. The priest was not
accustomed to these kinds of clandestine meetings. He
wouldn&#8217;t have come at all, had Vasher not exerted certain. .
.pressures on him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher opened his eyes, staring
at the priest as the waiter arrived with two plates of spiced
rice.&#160; Textees food was the restaurant&#8217;s specialty--the
Hallandren liked foreign spices as much as they liked odd colors.
&#160;&#160;Vasher had placed the order earlier, along with a
payment that would keep the surrounding booths empty.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well?&#8221; Vasher
repeated.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I. . .&#8221; Bebid
said.&#160; &#8220;I don&#8217;t know. Haven&#8217;t been able to
find out much.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher regarded the man with a
flat stare.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You have to give me more
time.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Remember your daughter,
friend,&#8221; Vasher said, drinking the last of his tea, feeling a
twinge of annoyance. <i>Do we have to go through this</i>
again<i>?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bebid was quiet for a time.
&#8220;You don&#8217;t know what you&#8217;re asking,
Vasher,&#8221; he said, leaning in. &#8220;I&#8217;m a priest of
Brightvison the True. I can&#8217;t betray my oaths!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Good thing I&#8217;m not
asking you to.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We&#8217;re not supposed
to release information about Court politics.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Bah,&#8221; Vasher
snapped.&#160; &#8220;Those Returned can&#8217;t so much as
<i>look</i> at one another without half of the city learning about
it within the hour.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Surely you&#8217;re not
implying--&#8221; Bebid said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher gritted his teeth,
bending his spoon with his finger in annoyance.
&#8220;<i>Enough</i>, Bebid!&#160; We both know that your oaths are
all just part of the game.&#8221; He leaned in.&#160; &#8220;And I
<i>really</i> hate games.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bebid paled and didn&#8217;t
touch his meal. Vasher eyed his spoon with annoyance, then bent it
back, calming himself. He shoveled in a spoonful of rice, mouth
burning from the spices. He&#8217;d didn&#8217;t believe in letting
food sit around uneaten--you never knew when you&#8217;d have to
leave in a hurry.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There have been. .
.rumors,&#8221; Bebid finally said. &#8220;This goes beyond simple
Court politics, Vasher--beyond games played between gods. This is
something very real, and <i>very</i> quiet. Quiet enough that even
observant priests only hear hints of it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher continued to eat.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There is a faction of
the Court who is pushing to attack Idris,&#8221; Bebid said.
&#8220;Though I can&#8217;t fathom why.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Don&#8217;t be an
idiot,&#8221; Vasher said, wishing he had more tea to wash down the
rice. &#8220;We both know why Hallandren has sound reasons to
slaughter every person up in those highlands.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Royals,&#8221; Bebid
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher nodded. They were called
rebels, but those &#8216;rebels&#8217; were the true Hallandren
royal family. Mortal men though they may be, their bloodline was a
challenge to the Court of Gods. Any good monarch knew that the
first thing you did to stabilize your throne was execute anyone who
had a better claim to it than you did. After that, it was usually a
good idea to execute everyone who <i>thought</i> they might have
any claim.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So,&#8221; Vasher
said.&#160; &#8220;You fight, Hallandren wins. What&#8217;s the
problem?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s a bad idea,
that&#8217;s the problem,&#8221; Bebid said. &#8220;A
<i>terrible</i> idea. Colors, man! Idris won&#8217;t go easily, no
matter what people in the court say. They have allies from across
the mountains and sympathies in dozens of kingdoms. What some are
calling a &#8216;simple quelling of rebel factions&#8217; could
easily spin into another Manywar.&#160; Do you want that? Thousands
upon thousands dead? Kingdoms falling to never rise again? All so
we can grab a little bit of frozen land nobody really
wants.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The trade passes are
valuable,&#8221; Vasher noted.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bebid snorted. &#8220;The
Idrians aren&#8217;t dumb enough to tax us <i>too</i> heavily on
them. This isn&#8217;t a money issue. It&#8217;s a fear issue.
People in the court talk about what <i>might</i> happen if the
Idrians cut off the passes or what <i>may</i> happen if the Idrians
let enemies slip through and stage a siege against T&#8217;Telir.
If this were about money, we&#8217;d never go to war. Hallandren
thrives on its dye and textiles trade. You think that business
would boom in war? We&#8217;d be lucky not to suffer a full
economic collapse.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And you assume that I
care about Hallandren&#8217;s economic well being?&#8221; Vasher
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ah, yes,&#8221; Bebid
said dryly. &#8220;I forgot who I was talking to. What <i>do</i>
you want, then? Tell me so we can get this over with.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Tell me about the
rebels,&#8221; Vasher said, chewing on rice.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The Idrians? We just
talked--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Not them,&#8221; Vasher
said. &#8220;The ones in the city.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They&#8217;re
unimportant now that Vahr is dead,&#8221; the priest said with a
wave of his hand. &#8220;Nobody knows who killed him, by the way.
The rebels managed to get an agent into the prison, somehow. Guess
they didn&#8217;t appreciate his getting himself captured,
eh?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher said nothing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Is that it?&#8221; Bebid
said impatiently.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I need to contact the
factions you mentioned,&#8221; Vasher said. &#8220;The ones who are
pushing for war against Idris.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I won&#8217;t help you
enrage the--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Do <i>not</i> presume to
tell me what to do, Bebid. Just give me the information you
promised, and you can be free of this all.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Vasher,&#8221; Bebid
said, leaning in even further. &#8220;I <i>can&#8217;t</i> help. My
lady isn&#8217;t interested in these kinds of politics, and I move
in the wrong circles.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher ate some more, judging
the man&#8217;s sincerity. &#8220;All right,&#8221; he finally
said. &#8220;Who, then?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bebid relaxed, using his napkin
to wipe his brow. &#8220;I don&#8217;t know,&#8221; he said.
&#8220;Maybe one of Mercystar&#8217;s priests? You could also try
Bluefingers, I suppose.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Bluefingers?
That&#8217;s an odd name for a god.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Bluefingers isn&#8217;t
a god,&#8221; Bebid said, chuckling. &#8220;That&#8217;s just a
nickname. He&#8217;s the High Place steward, head of the scribes.
He pretty much keeps the Court running; if anyone knows anything
about this faction, it will be him. Of course, he&#8217;s so stiff
and straight, you&#8217;ll have a hard time breaking
him.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;d be
surprised,&#8221; Vasher said, shoveling the last bit of rice into
his mouth. &#8220;I got you, didn&#8217;t I?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I guess.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher stood. &#8220;Pay the
waiter when you leave,&#8221; he said, grabbing his cloak off its
peg and wandering out. He could feel a. . .darkness to his right.
He walked down the street, then turned down an alley, where he
found Nightblood--still sheathed--sticking from the chest of the
thief who had stolen him. Another cutpurse lay dead on the alley
floor.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher pulled the sword free,
then snapped the sheath closed--it had only been opened a fraction
of an inch--and did up the snap.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You lost your temper in
there for a bit,</i> Nightblood said with a chastising voice. <i>I
thought you were going to work on that.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Guess I&#8217;m
relapsing,</i> Vasher thought.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Nightblood paused. <i>I
don&#8217;t think you ever really unlapsed in the first
place.&#160;</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>That&#8217;s not a word,</i>
Vasher said, leaving the alley.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>So?</i> Nightblood said.
<i>You&#8217;re too worried about words. That priest--you spent all
those words on him, then you just let him go. It&#8217;s not really
how I would have handled the situation.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Yes, I know,</i> Vasher
said. <i>Your way would have involved making several more
corpses.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Well, I</i> am <i>a
sword,</i> Nightblood said with a mental huff. <i>Might as well
stick to what you&#8217;re good at. . . .</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong watched his new
queen&#8217;s carriage pull up to the palace. &#8220;Well, this has
been a pleasant day,&#8221; he noted, sitting on his patio. A few
cups of wine--along with some time to avoid thinking about children
without Breath--and he was beginning to feel more like his regular
self.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;re that happy
to have a queen?&#8221; Llarimar asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m that happy to
have avoided Petitions for the day. Sit down and stop looming.
You&#8217;re giving me a headache.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar raised an eyebrow. It
was impossible for a god to feel most normal ailments, headaches
included. However, the priest did sit on one of the patio&#8217;s
wooden lounging chairs. &#160;Two potted palms waved in the wind,
and Lightsong smelled salt on the incoming sea breeze.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I wonder if I sailed the sea
once,</i> he thought. <i>A man of the ocean? Is that how I died? Is
that why I dreamed of a ship?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar relaxed as he sat, and
Lightsong smiled to himself as the man removed the bulky mitre from
his head. Underneath, Llarimar&#8217;s dark hair was plastered to
his head with sweat. He ran his hand through it. During the first
few years, Llarimar had remained stiff and formal all the time.
Eventually, however, Lightsong had worn him down. After all,
Lightsong was the god. In his opinion, if he could lounge on the
job, then so could his priests.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t know, your
Excellency,&#8221; Llarimar said slowly, rubbing his chin. &#8220;I
don&#8217;t like this.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why not?&#8221;
Lightsong asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We haven&#8217;t had a
queen in the Court for some thirty years. I don&#8217;t know how
the factions will deal with her.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ah,&#8221; Lightsong
said, rubbing his forehead. &#8220;Politics, Llarimar? You know I
frown on such things.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar eyed him.&#160;
&#8220;Your Excellency, you are--by default--a
politician.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Don&#8217;t remind me,
please. I should very well like to extract myself from the
situation. Do you think, perhaps, I could pay one of the other gods
to take control of my Lifeless commands? They could have twice as
much power, and I could have half as many stomach aches.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I doubt that would be
wise,&#8221; Llarimar said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s all part of
my master plan to ensure that I become totally and redundantly
useless to this city by the time I die. Again.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar cocked his head.
&#8220;Redundantly useless?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course. Regular
uselessness wouldn&#8217;t be enough--I am, after all, a god. As
for the Idris princess, I find her arrival to be a quite pleasant
event. Now, perhaps, people will stop moaning about the lack of
true Royal blood in the Divine Monarchy, and we can go back to
complaining about more important things, such as why we--being
gods--can&#8217;t force cherries to be in season all
year.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong glanced toward the
High Palace, with its black stones. &#160;He knew what Llarimar was
thinking--the gossip had arrived already. Old Dedelin hadn&#8217;t
sent his firstborn daughter. He&#8217;d sent the youngest. A Royal,
true, but not the heir to the line.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It would mean more arguments.
More hesitance. And, unfortunately, more headaches. Lightsong
figured he <i>should</i> be able to feel those, even if his head
itself refused to comply.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Still,&#8221; Llarimar
said, as if talking to himself. &#8220;They did send
<i>someone</i>. That is a good sign. An outright refusal would have
meant war.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;War. The only thing
worse than politics.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Some say the two are the
same, your grace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong shrugged.&#160;
&#8220;At least politics doesn&#8217;t make you march about on an
empty stomach--unless you count the nausea I feel every time I have
to deal with someone trying to pull me into their political
faction.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What will the Idrian
rebels do now, you think?&#8221; Llarimar said idly, ignoring--as
usual--Lightsong&#8217;s witty remarks. Lightsong would have been
offended if he hadn&#8217;t known there were three separate lesser
priests standing at the back of the building, recording his words,
searching for wisdom and meaning within them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Here&#8217;s the thing,
Scoot,&#8221; Lightsong said, leaning back, closing his eyes and
feeling the sun on his face. &#8220;The Idris don&#8217;t consider
themselves to be rebels. They&#8217;re not sitting up in their
hills, waiting for the day when they can be accepted back into
Hallandren. This isn&#8217;t their homeland any more.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Those peaks are hardly a
kingdom.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They&#8217;re enough of
a kingdom to control the area&#8217;s best mineral deposits, four
vital passes to the north, and the original royal line of
Hallandren. They don&#8217;t need us, my friend.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And the talk of Idris
dissidents in the city, ones rousing the people against the Court
of Gods?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Rumors only,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;Though, when I&#8217;m proven wrong and the
underprivileged masses storm my palace and burn me to death,
I&#8217;ll be sure to inform them that you were right all along.
You&#8217;ll get the last laugh. Or. . .well, the last scream,
since you&#8217;ll probably be tied up next to me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar&#8217;s sighed, and
Lightsong opened his eyes to find the priest regarding him. The
priest didn&#8217;t chastise Lightsong for his levity. Llarimar
just reached down, putting his headdress back on. He was the
priest; Lightsong the God. There would be no questioning of
motives, no rebukes. If Lightsong gave an order, they would all do
exactly as he said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Sometimes, that terrified
him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But not this day. He was,
instead, annoyed. Llarimar had somehow gotten him talking about
politics--and the day had been going so well.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;More wine,&#8221;
Lightsong said, raising his cup.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You can&#8217;t get
drunk, your grace,&#8221; Llarimar noted. &#8220;Your body is
immune to all toxins.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I know,&#8221; Lightsong
said as a lesser servant filled his cup. &#8220;But trust
me--I&#8217;m <i>quite</i> good at pretending.&#8221;</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Six</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri stepped from the carriage.
&#160;Immediately, dozens of servants in blue and silver swarmed
around her, pulling her away. Siri turned, alarmed, looking back
toward her soldiers.&#160; The men stepped forward, but Tridees
held up his hand.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The Vessel will go
alone,&#8221; the priest declared.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri felt a stab of fear. This
was the time. &#8220;Return to Idris,&#8221; she said to the
men.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But, my lady--&#8221;
the lead soldier said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; Siri said.
&#8220;You can do nothing more for me here. Please, return and tell
my father that I arrived safely.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The lead soldier glanced back
at his men, uncertain. Siri didn&#8217;t get to see if they obeyed
or not, for the servants shuffled her around a corner into a long,
black hallway.&#160; Siri tried to show a resolved face.
She&#8217;d come to the palace to be wedded, and was determined to
make a favorable impression on the God King. She would act
composed. Even if she really was just terrified. What was she
doing? Why hadn&#8217;t she run? Why hadn&#8217;t she wiggled out
of this somehow? Why couldn&#8217;t they have all just let her
be?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;There was no escape now.&#160;
As the serving women led her down a the corridor into the deep
black palace, the last remnants of her former life disappeared
behind her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She was now alone.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lanterns with colored glass lit
the walls. Siri was led through several twists and turns in the
dark passages. She tried to remember her way back to the carriage,
but was soon hopelessly lost. The servants surrounded her like an
honor guard, but did not push her, now that she was moving. Though
all were female, they were of differing ages. Each wore a blue cap
on the head, hair loose out the back, and they kept their eyes
downcast. Their clothing was of a shimmering blue, and was
loose-fitting, even through the bust. Siri blushed at the low-cut
fronts.&#160; In Idris, women kept even their necks
covered.&#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The black corridor eventually
opened into a much larger room. Siri hesitated in the doorway.
While the stone walls of this room were black, they had been draped
in silks of a deep maroon. In fact, <i>everything</i> in the room
was maroon, from the carpeting, to the furniture, to the
tubs--surrounded by tile--in the center of the room.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The servants began to pick at
her clothing, undressing her. Siri jumped, swatting at a few hands,
causing them to pause in surprise. Then, they attacked with renewed
vigor, and Siri realized that she didn&#8217;t have a choice except
to grit her teeth and bear the treatment. She raised her arms up,
letting the servants pull off her dress and underclothing, and felt
her hair grow red as she blushed. At least the room was warm.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shivered anyway.&#160; She
was forced to stand, naked, as other servants approached, bearing
measuring tapes. They poked and prodded, getting various
measurements, including ones around Siri&#8217;s waist, bust,
shoulders, and hips. When that was finished, the women backed away,
and the room fell still. The bath continued to steam in the center
of the chamber. Several of the serving women gestured toward
it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Guess I&#8217;m allowed to
wash myself,</i> Siri thought with relief, walking up the tile
steps. She stepped carefully into the massive tub, and was pleased
at how warm the water was. She lowered herself into the water,
letting herself relax just a fraction.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Soft splashes sounded behind
her, and she spun. Several other serving women--these ones wearing
brown--were climbing down into the tub, fully clothed, holding
brushes and soap. Siri sighed, yielding herself to their care as
they began to scrub vigorously at her body and hair. She closed her
eyes, enduring the treatment with as much dignity as she could
manage.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That left her time to think,
which was not good. That only allowed her to consider just what was
happening too her. Her anxiety immediately returned.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>The Lifeless weren&#8217;t
as bad as the stories,</i> she thought, trying to reassure herself.
<i>And the city colors are far more pleasant than I expected.
Maybe. . .maybe the God King isn&#8217;t as terrible as everyone
says.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ah, good,&#8221; a voice
said. &#8220;We&#8217;re right on schedule. Perfect.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri froze. That was a
<i>man&#8217;s</i> voice. She snapped her eyes open to find an
older man in brown robes standing beside the tub, writing something
on a ledger. He was balding and had a round, pleasant face. A young
boy stood next to him, bearing extra sheets of paper and a small
jar of ink for the man to use in dipping his quill.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri screamed, startling
several of her servants as she moved with a sudden splashing
motion, covering herself with her arms.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man with the ledger
hesitated, looking down. &#8220;Is something wrong,
vessel?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m
<i>bathing,</i>&#8221; she snapped.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; the man
said.&#160; &#8220;I believe I can tell that.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, why are you
<i>watching</i>?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man cocked his head.
&#8220;But, I&#8217;m a royal servant, far beneath your station. .
. .&#8221; he said, then trailed off. &#8220;Ah, yes. Idris
sensibilities. I had forgotten. Ladies, please splash around, make
some more bubbles in the bath.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The serving women did as asked,
churning up bubbles and foam in the soapy water.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There,&#8221; the man
said, turning back to his ledger. &#8220;I can&#8217;t see a thing.
Now, let us get on with this. It would not do to keep the God King
waiting on his wedding day!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri reluctantly allowed the
bathing to continue, though she was careful to keep certain bits of
anatomy well beneath the water. The women worked furiously,
scrubbing hard enough that Siri was half-afraid they&#8217;d rub
her skin right off.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;As you might
guess,&#8221; the man said, &#8220;we&#8217;re on a <i>very</i>
tight schedule. There&#8217;s much to do, and I would like this all
to go as smoothly as possible.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri frowned. &#8220;And. .
.who exactly are you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man glanced at her, causing
her to duck down beneath the suds a little more. Her hair, she
noticed, was as bright a red as it had ever been.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My name is Havarseth,
but everyone just calls me Bluefingers.&#8221; He held up a hand
and wiggled the fingers, which were all stained dark with blue ink
from writing. &#8220;I am head scribe and steward to his Excellent
Grace Susebron, God King of Hallandren. In simpler terms, I manage
the palace attendants and oversee all servants in the Court of
Gods.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He paused, eying her.&#160;
&#8220;I also make certain that everyone stays on schedule and does
what they are supposed to.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Some of the younger
girls--wearing brown, like the ones bathing Siri--began bringing
pitchers of water to the side of the tub, and the women used these
to rinse Siri&#8217;s hair.&#160; She turned about to let them,
though she tired to keep a waterlogged eye on Bluefingers and his
serving boy.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Now,&#8221; Bluefingers
said.&#160; &#8220;The palace tailors are working very quickly on
your gown. We had a good estimate of your size, but final
measurements were necessary to complete the process. We should have
the garment ready for you in a short time.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The serving women dunked
Siri&#8217;s head again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There are some things we
need to discuss,&#8221; Bluefingers continued, voice distorted by
the water in Siri&#8217;s ears. &#8220;I presume you have been
taught the proper method of treating his Royal
Excellency?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri glanced at him, then
looked away. She probably <i>had</i> been taught, but she
didn&#8217;t really remember--and either way, wasn&#8217;t in a
frame of mind to concentrate.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ah,&#8221; Bluefingers
said, apparently reading her expression. &#8220;Well then, this
could be. . .interesting.&#160; Allow me to give you some
suggestions.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri nodded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;First, please understand
that the God King&#8217;s will is law. He needs no reason or
justification for what he does. Your life, like all of our lives,
is in his hands. Second, please understand that the God King does
not speak with people such as you or I. You will not talk to him
when you go to him. Do you understand?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri spit out a bit of soapy
water. &#8220;You mean I&#8217;m not even able to be able to
<i>speak</i> to my husband?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m afraid
not,&#8221; Bluefingers said. &#8220;None of us can.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then how does he make
judgments and rulings?&#8221; she asked, wiping her eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The Council of Gods
handles the kingdom&#8217;s more mundane needs,&#8221; Bluefingers
explained. &#8220;The God King is above the day-to-day governance.
When it <i>is</i> necessary for him to communicate, he gives his
judgments to his priests, who then reveal them to the
world.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Great,</i> Siri thought.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It is unconventional
that you are allowed to touch him,&#8221; Bluefingers continued.
&#8220;Fathering a child is a necessary encumbrance for him. It is
our job to present you in as pleasing a way as possible, and
avoid--at all costs--irritating him.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Austre, God of colors,</i>
she thought. <i>What kind of creature is this?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers eyed her.&#160;
&#8220;I know something of your temperament, Vessel,&#8221; he
said. &#8220;We have, of course, researched the children of the
Idris monarchy. Allow me be a little more personal, and perhaps a
little more direct, than I would prefer. If you speak directly to
the God King, he will order you executed. Unlike your father, he is
not a man of patience.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I cannot stress
this point enough, Vessel. I realize fully that you are accustomed
to being a very important person. Indeed, you still <i>are</i> that
important--if not more so. You are far above myself and these
others. However, as far as you are above us, the God King is even
<i>farther</i> above you.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The God King is. . .
special. The doctrines teach that the earth itself is too base for
him. He is one who obtained transcendence before he was even born,
but then Returned to bring his people blessings and visions. You
are being given a special trust.&#160; Please, do not betray
it--and please, <i>please</i> to not rile his anger. Do you
understand?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri nodded slowly, feeling her
hair bleach back to white. She tried to steel herself, but any bit
of courage she could gather felt like a sham. No, this creature
wasn&#8217;t going to be stomached as easily as the Lifeless or the
city colors. His reputation in Idris wasn&#8217;t exaggerated.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;In a short time, he was going
to take her body and do with it as he wished. Part of her felt a
rage at that--but it was the rage of frustration. The rage that
came from knowing that something horrible was coming, and from
being unable to do anything at all about it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The serving women backed away
from her, leaving her half-floating in the soapy water. One of the
servants looked to Bluefingers and nodded her head in respect.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ah, finished are
we?&#8221; he asked. &#8220;Excellent. You and your ladies are
efficient, as always, Jlan.&#160; Let us proceed, then.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Can&#8217;t they
speak?&#8221; Siri asked quietly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course they
can,&#8221; Bluefingers said. &#8220;But they are dedicated
servants of his Excellency. During their hours of service, their
duty is to be as useful as possible without being distracting. Now,
if you&#8217;ll continue. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri stayed in the water, even
when the silent women tried to pull her out. &#160;Bluefingers
turned around with a sigh, putting his back to her. He reached over
and turned the serving boy around as well.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri finally allowed herself to
be led out of the bath. The wet women left her, walking into a side
room--probably to change--and several others approached, leading
Siri toward a smaller tub, apparently intended for rinsing. She
stepped down into the water, which was much colder than the other
bath, and gasped. The women motioned for her to dunk, and she
cringed, but did so, cleaning off most of the soap. After that,
there was a final, third tub. As Siri approached, shivering, she
could smell strong floral scents coming from it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What&#8217;s
this?&#8221; Siri asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Perfumed bath,&#8221;
Bluefingers said, still turned away. &#8220;If you prefer, you may
have one of the palace masseuses rub perfume onto your body
instead. I advise against that, however, considering time
restraints. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri blushed, imagining
anyone--male or female--rubbing her body with perfume. &#8220;This
will be fine,&#8221; she said, climbing down into the water. It was
lukewarm, and the floral scents were so strong that she had to
breathe through her mouth.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The women motioned downward,
and--sighing--Siri dunked beneath the scented water. After that,
she climbed out, and several women finally approached with fluffy
towels. They began to pat Siri down, their touch as delicate and
soft as the previous scrubbing had been hard. This took away some
of the strong scent, for which Siri was glad. Other women
approached with a deep blue robe, and she extended her arms,
allowing them to put it on her, then tie it shut. &#8220;You may
turn around,&#8221; she told the steward.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Excellent,&#8221;
Bluefingers said, doing so. He strode toward a door at the side of
the room, waving for her. &#8220;Quickly, now. We still have much
to do.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri and the serving women
followed, leaving the maroon room for one that was decorated in
bright yellows. It held a lot more furniture, no bath, and a large
plush chair in the center of the room.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;His majesty is
associated with no single hue,&#8221; Bluefingers said, waving to
the bright colors of the room as the women led Siri to the plush
chair. &#8220;He represents all colors and each of the Iridescent
Tones. Therefore, each room is decorated with a different
color.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri sat, and the women began
to work on her nails. Another tried to brush out the snarls that
had come from the hearty washing. Siri frowned. &#8220;Just cut it
off,&#8221; she said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They hesitated.
&#8220;Vessel?&#8221; one asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Cut off the hair,&#8221;
she said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers gave them
permission, and a few snips later, her hair was in a bunch on the
floor. Then Siri closed her eyes and focused.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She wasn&#8217;t certain how
she did it. The Royal Locks had always been part of her life;
altering them was like moving any other muscle to her, if a little
more difficult. In a few moments, she was able to get the hair to
grow.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Several women gasped softly as
the hair sprouted from Siri&#8217;s head and moved down to her
shoulders. Growing it made her feel hungry and tired, but it was
better than letting the women fight snarls. Finished, she opened
her eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers was watching her
with a curious expression, his ledger held loosely in his fingers.
&#8220;That is. . .fascinating,&#8221; he said. &#8220;The Royal
Locks. We have waited quite some time for them to grace the palace
again, Vessel. You can change the color at will?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; Siri said.
<i>Though most of the time, it changes at its own will.</i>
&#8220;Is it too long?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Long hair is seen as a
sign of beauty in Hallandren, my lady,&#8221; Bluefingers said.
&#8220;I know you keep it bound up in Idris, but here, flowing hair
is favored by many of the women--particularly the
Goddesses.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Part of her wanted to keep the
hair short just out of spite. She was beginning to realize that
such an attitude, however, could get her killed in Hallandren.
Instead, she closed her eyes and focused again. The hair had been
shoulder length, but she extended it for several minutes, making it
grow until it would reach all the way down her back once she
stood.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri opened her eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Beautiful,&#8221; one of
the younger serving women whispered, then flushed, immediately
returning to her work on Siri&#8217;s toenails.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Very nice,&#8221;
Bluefingers agreed. &#8220;I will leave you here--I have a few
things to be about--but will return shortly.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri nodded as he left, and
several women moved in and began to apply makeup. Siri suffered it
pensively, others still working on her nails and hair. This
wasn&#8217;t how she had imagined her wedding day. Marriage had
always seemed distant to her, something that would only happen
after spouses had been chosen for her siblings. When she&#8217;d
been very young, in fact, she&#8217;d always said that she intended
to raise horses instead of getting married.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She&#8217;d grown out of that,
but a piece of her felt a longing for such simple times. She
<i>didn&#8217;t</i> want to be married. Not yet. She still felt
like a child, even if her body had become that of a woman. She
wanted to play in the hills and pick flowers and tease her father.
She wanted time to experience more of life before she was forced
into the responsibilities of child-bearing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Fate had taken that opportunity
away from her. Now she was faced by the imminent prospect of going
to a man&#8217;s bed. A man who wouldn&#8217;t speak to her, and
who wouldn&#8217;t care who she was or what she wanted. She knew
the physical requirements of what would be involved--she could
thank Mab the cook for some candid discussions on that point--but
emotionally, she just felt petrified. Everything was all wrong. She
wanted to run, hide, flee as far as she could.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Did all women feel this way, or
was it only those who were being washed, cleaned, and sent to
please a deity with the power to destroy nations?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers eventually
returned.&#160; Another person entered behind him, an elderly man
in the blue and silver clothing Siri was beginning to associate
with those who served the God King.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>But. . .Bluefingers wears
brown,</i> Siri thought, frowning. <i>Why is that?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ah, I see that my timing
is perfect,&#8221; Bluefingers said as the women finished. They
retreated to the sides of the room, heads bowed slightly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers nodded to the
elderly man. &#8220;Vessel, this is one of the palace healers.
Before you are taken to the God King, you will need to be inspected
to determine if you are a maiden and to ensure that you don&#8217;t
have certain diseases. It&#8217;s really just a formality, but one
that I&#8217;m afraid I must insist upon. In consideration of your
bashfulness, I did not bring the young healer I had originally
assigned to the job. I assume an older healer will make you more
comfortable?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri sighed, but nodded.
Bluefingers gestured toward a padded table on the side of the room,
then he and his serving boy turned around. Siri undid her robe and
went to the table, lying down to continue what was proving to be
the most embarrassing day of her life.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>It will only get worse,</i>
she thought as the doctor did his examination.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron, the God King.
Awesome, terrible, holy, majestic. He had been stillborn, but had
Returned. What did that do to a man? Would he even be human? Would
he be some monster, terrible to behold? He was said to be eternal,
but obviously his reign would end, otherwise he wouldn&#8217;t need
an heir.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shivered, partially wishing
it would just be over with, but also partially relieved for
anything that stalled for just a little longer, even something as
humiliating as the doctor&#8217;s prodding. It eventually finished,
however, and Siri quickly did up her robe again, standing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;She is quite
healthy,&#8221; the healer said to Bluefingers. &#8220;And most
likely still a maiden. She has a very strong Breath, as
well.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri froze. How could he tell.
. . .</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And then she saw it.&#160; She
had to look very closely, but the yellow floor around the surgeon
looked a tad too bright. She felt herself pale, though the
nervousness had already made her hair as white as it went.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>The doctor is an
Awakener,</i> she thought. <i>There is an Awakener here, in this
room. And he touched me.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She cringed, skin writhing. It
was wrong to take the Breath from another person. It was the
ultimate in arrogance, the complete opposite of Idris philosophy.
Others in Hallandren simply wore bright colors to draw attention to
themselves, but Awakeners. . .they stole the life from human
beings, and used <i>that</i> to make themselves stand out.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Use of Breath was one of the
main reasons that the Royal line had moved to the highlands in the
first place. Modern day Hallandren subsisted on the basis of
extorting its people out of its Breath. Siri felt more naked now
than she had been when unclothed.&#160; What could this Awakener
tell about her, because of his unnatural life force?&#160; Was he
tempted to steal Siri&#8217;s BioChroma? She tried to breathe as
shallowly as possible, just in case.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Eventually, Bluefingers and the
terrible doctor left the room. The women approached to undo her
robe once again, some bearing undergarments.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>He will be worse,</i> she
realized. <i>The King. He&#8217;s not just an Awakener, he&#8217;s
Returned. He needs to suck the Breath from people in order to
survive.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Would he take away her
Breath?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>No, that won&#8217;t
happen,</i> she told herself firmly. <i>He needs me to provide him
with an heir of the Royal line. He won&#8217;t risk the
child&#8217;s safety. He&#8217;ll leave me my Breath, if only until
then.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But. . .what would happen to
her when she was no longer needed?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her attention was drawn away
from such thoughts as several serving women approached with a large
bundle of cloth. A dress. No, a gown--a gorgeous gown of blue and
silver.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri waited quietly as the
women put it on her. The fabric was amazingly soft on her skin, the
velvet smooth like petals from a highland flower. As the women
situated it on her, she noticed that--oddly--that it laced up the
side, instead of the back. &#160;It had an extremely long train and
sleeves that were so long that if she put her arms down at the
sides, the cuffs hung several feet below her hands. It took several
minutes for the women to get the ties done up right, the folds
situated correctly, and the train arranged behind her. <i>All this
so that it can be taken off again in a few minutes,</i> Siri
thought with a detached sense of cold irony as a woman approached
with a mirror.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri froze.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Where had all that color come
from? The delicately red cheeks, the mysteriously dark eyes, the
blue on the top of her eyelids? The deep red lips, the almost
glowing skin?&#160; The gown shone silver upon blue, bulky yet
beautiful, with ripples of deep, velvet cloth.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was like nothing she&#8217;d
seen in Idris. It was more amazing, even, than the colors
she&#8217;d seen on the people in the city. Staring at herself in
the mirror, Siri was almost able to forget her worries.
&#8220;Thank you,&#8221; she whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That must have been the right
response, for the serving women smiled, glancing at each other. Two
took her hands, moving much more respectfully now than when
they&#8217;d first rushed her from the carriage. Siri strode with
them, train rustling behind her, and the other women stayed behind.
Siri turned, and the women curtseyed to her one at a time, heads
bowed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She turned away from them, and
the last two--the ones leading her--opened a door, then gently
pushed her out into the hallway beyond. They closed the door,
leaving her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The hallway was of the deepest
black. She&#8217;d almost forgotten how dark the stone walls of the
palace were. The hallway was empty, save for Bluefingers, who stood
waiting for her with his ledger. He smiled at her, bowing his head
in respect.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The God King will be
pleased, Vessel,&#8221; he said. &#8220;We are exactly on time--the
sun only just set.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri turned from Bluefingers.
Directly across from her was a large, imposing door. It was plated
entirely with gold. Four wall lamps shone without colored glass,
and they reflected light off the gilded portal. She had no question
as to who lie beyond such an impressive marker.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;This is the God
King&#8217;s sleeping chambers,&#8221; Bluefingers said.
&#8220;Rather, <i>one</i> of his sleeping chambers. Now, my lady,
you <i>must</i> hear this again. Do nothing to offend the King. You
are here at <i>his</i> sufferance, and are here to see to
<i>his</i> needs. Not mine, not your own, and not even that of our
kingdom.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I understand,&#8221; she
said quietly, heart beating faster and faster.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Thank you,&#8221;
Bluefingers said. &#8220;It is time to present yourself. Enter the
room, then remove your dress and underclothing. Bow yourself to the
ground before the King&#8217;s bed, touching your head to the
floor. When he wishes for you to approach, he will knock on the
side post, and you may look up. &#160;He will then wave you
forward.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She nodded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Just. . .try not to
touch him too much.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri frowned, clenching and
unclenching her increasingly nervous hands. &#8220;How exactly am I
going to manage <i>that</i>? We&#8217;re going to have sex,
aren&#8217;t we?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers flushed.
&#8220;Yes, I guess you are. This is something of new ground for
me, my lady. The God King. . .well, only a group of specially
dedicated servants are supposed to touch him. My suggestion would
be to avoid kissing him, caressing him, or doing anything else that
might offend him. Simply let him do to you what he wishes, and you
should be safe.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri took a deep breath,
nodding.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;When you are
finished,&#8221; Bluefingers said, &#8220;the King will withdraw.
Take the bed linens and burn them in the hearth. As the Vessel, you
are the only one allowed to handle such things. Do you
understand?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; Siri said,
growing increasingly anxious.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Very well then,&#8221;
Bluefingers said, looking almost as nervous as she was. &#8220;Good
luck.&#8221; With that, he reached forward and pushed the door
open.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Oh, Austre, God of
Colors,</i> she thought, heart pounding, hands sweating, growing
numb.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers pushed her lightly
on the back, and she stepped into the room.</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Seven</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The door shut behind her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A large fire growled in a
hearth to her left, bringing a shifting orange light to the large
room. The black walls seemed to draw in and absorb the
illumination, making deep shadows at the edges of the room.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri stood quietly in her
ornate velvet dress, heart thumping, brow sweating. To her right,
she could make out a massive bed, with sheets and covers of black
to match the rest of the room. The bed appeared unoccupied. Siri
peered into the darkness, eyes adjusting.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The fire crackled, throwing a
flicker of light across a large, throne-like chair sitting beside
the bed. It was occupied by a figure wearing black, bathed in
darkness. He watched her, eyes twinkling, unblinking in the
firelight.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri gasped, casting her eyes
downward, her heartbeat surging as she remembered
Bluefingers&#8217; warnings. <i>Vivenna should be here instead of
me,</i> Siri thought desperately.&#160; <i>I can&#8217;t deal with
this! Father was wrong to send me!</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She squeezed her eyes shut, her
breathing coming more quickly. She waved shaking fingers and pulled
nervously at the strings on the side of her dress. Her hands were
slick with sweat as she tried to undress. Was she taking too long?
Would he be angered? Would she be killed before even the first
night was out?<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Would she maybe prefer
that?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>No,</i> she thought with
determination. <i>No. I need to do this. For Idris. For the fields
and the children who took flowers from me. For my father and Mab
and everyone else in the palace.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She finally got the strings
undone, and the gown fell away with surprising ease--she could now
see that it had been constructed with that goal in mind. She
dropped the dress to the floor then paused, looking at her
undershift. The white fabric was throwing out a spectrum of colors,
like light bent by a prism. She regarded this with shock, wondering
what was causing the strange effect.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It didn&#8217;t matter. She was
too nervous to think about that. Gritting her teeth, she forced
herself to pull off her undershift, leaving her naked. She quickly
knelt on the cold stone floor, curling up, heart thudding in her
ears as she bowed with her forehead touching the floor.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The room fell silent save for
the crackling hearth. The fire wasn&#8217;t really necessary in the
Hallandren warmth, but she was glad for it, unclothed as she
was.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She waited, hair pure white,
arrogance and stubbornness discarded, naked in more than one way.
This is where she ended up--this is where all her
&#8216;independent&#8217; sense of freedom came to a halt. No
matter what she claimed or how she felt, in the end, she had to bow
to authority. Just like anyone else.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She gritted her teeth,
imagining the God King sitting there, watching her subservient and
naked before him. She hadn&#8217;t seen much of him, other than to
notice his size--he was a good foot taller than most other men
she&#8217;d seen, and was wider of shoulders and more powerful of
build as well. More significant than other, lesser men.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He was Returned.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Being Returned in and of itself
wasn&#8217;t a sin. After all, Returned came in Idris too. The
Hallandren people, however, kept the Returned alive, feeding them
on the souls of peasants, tearing away the Breath of hundreds of
people each year. . . .</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Don&#8217;t think of
that,</i> Siri told herself forcefully. Yet, as she tried to clear
her mind, the God King&#8217;s eyes returned to her memory. Those
black eyes, which had almost seemed to glow in the firelight. She
could feel them on her still, watching her, as cold as the stones
upon which she knelt.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The fire crackled.&#160;
Bluefingers had said that the King would knock for her. What if she
missed it? But, she didn&#8217;t dare glance upward. She&#8217;d
already met his gaze once, if by accident. She couldn&#8217;t risk
upsetting him further. She just continued to kneel in place, elbows
on the ground, back beginning to ache.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Why doesn&#8217;t he do
something?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Was he was displeased with her?
Was she not as pretty as he&#8217;d desired, or was he angered that
she&#8217;d met his eyes, then taken too long to undress? It would
be particularly ironic if she offended him when trying so hard not
to be her usual flippant self. Or was something else wrong? He had
been promised the eldest daughter of the Idris king, but had
instead received Siri. Would he know the difference? Would he even
care?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The minutes passed, the room
growing more dark as the fire burned away its logs.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>He&#8217;s toying with
me</i>, Siri thought. <i>Forcing me to wait on his whims.</i>
Making her kneel in such an uncomfortable position was probably a
message--one that showed who was in power. He would take her when
<i>he</i> willed it, and not before.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri gritted her teeth as the
time passed. How long had she been kneeling? An hour, maybe
longer.&#160; And still, there wasn&#8217;t a hint of sound--no
knock, no cough, not even a shuffle from the God King. Perhaps it
was a test, to see how long she would remain as she was. Perhaps
she was just reading too much into things. Either way, she forced
herself to remain in place, shifting only when she absolutely had
to.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna had the training.&#160;
Vivenna had the poise and the refinement. But Siri, she had the
stubbornness.&#160; One only had to look back at her history of
repeatedly ignoring lessons and duties to realize that. With time,
she&#8217;d even broken down her father. He&#8217;d started letting
her do as she pleased, if only to save his own sanity.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And so she continued to
wait--naked in the light of the coals--as the night wore on.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Fireworks sprayed sparks up in
a fountain of light. Some fell close to where Lightsong was
sitting, and these blazed with an extra, frenzied light until they
died away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He reclined on a couch in the
open air, watching the display. Servants waited around him,
complete with parasols, a portable bar, wet towels to rub his face
and hands should he feel the need, and a host of other luxuries
that--to Lightsong--were simply commonplace.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He watched the fireworks with
mild interest. The firemasters stood in a nervous cluster near his
position. Beside them were a troop of minstrels that Lightsong had
called for, yet hadn&#8217;t yet asked to perform. While there were
always entertainers in the Court of Gods for the Returned to enjoy,
this night--the wedding night of their God King--was even more
extravagant.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron wasn&#8217;t in
attendance himself, of course. Such festivities were beneath him.
Lightsong glanced to the side, where the King&#8217;s palace rose
above the Court of Gods. Eventually, Lightsong just shook his head
and turned his attention back to the courtyard. The palaces of the
gods formed a ring, and each building had a patio and balcony
facing the central area. So, Lightsong basically sat in the front
yard of his palace, though that yard also happened to be part of
the massive courtyard.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Another firefountain sprayed
into the air, throwing shadows across the courtyard. Lightsong
sighed, accepting another fruited drink from a servant. The night
was cool and pleasant, fit for a God. Or Gods. Lightsong could see
other pavilions set up in front of other palaces. Different groups
of performers cluttered the sides of the courtyard, waiting for
their chance to please one of the Returned.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The fountain ran low, and the
firemasters looked toward him, smiling hopefully by
torchlight.&#160; Lightsong nodded with his best benevolent
expression. &#8220;More fireworks,&#8221; he said.&#160; &#8220;You
have pleased me.&#8221; This caused the three men to whisper in
excitement and wave for their assistants.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;As they set up, a familiar
figure wandered into Lightsong&#8217;s ring of torches. Llarimar
wore his priestly robes, as always. Even when he was out in the
city--which was where he should have been this night--he
represented Lightsong and his priesthood.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Scoot?&#8221; Lightsong
asked, sitting up.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your grace,&#8221;
Llarimar said, bowing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What are you doing
here?&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;You should be out with your
family.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I just wanted to check
to make certain everything was to your liking.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong rubbed his forehead.
&#8220;You&#8217;re giving me a headache, Scoot.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You can&#8217;t get
headaches, your grace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So you&#8217;re fond of
telling me,&#8221; Lightsong said, waving for a servant to bring
his priest a stool.&#160; &#8220;How are things outside the holy
prison?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar frowned at the choice
of words. &#8220;His Excellency&#8217;s wedding celebrations are
quite fantastic,&#8221; he said, adjusting his spectacles as
another fountain of sparks began to spurt in the courtyard before
them. &#8220;The city hasn&#8217;t seen a festival this grand in
decades.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then you should be out
enjoying it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I just--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Scoot,&#8221; Lightsong
said, giving the man a pointed look, &#8220;if there&#8217;s
<i>one</i> thing you can trust me to do competently on my own,
it&#8217;s enjoy myself. I will--I promise in all solemnity--have a
ravishingly good time drinking myself to excess and watching these
nice men light things on fire. Now go be with your
family.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar paused, then stood,
bowed, and withdrew.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>That man,</i> Lightsong
thought, sipping his fruity drink, <i>takes his work far too
seriously.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The concept amused Lightsong,
and he leaned back, enjoying the fireworks. However, he was soon
distracted by the approach of someone else. Or, rather, one very
important someone else leading a group of far less important
someone elses. Lightsong sipped his drink again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The newcomer was beautiful. She
was a Goddess, after all. Dark black hair, pale skin, lush and
curvaceous body. She wore far less clothing than Lightsong did, but
that was common for most of the Court&#8217;s Goddesses. Her thin
gown of green and silver was split on both sides, showing hips and
thighs, and the neckline was draped down so low that very little
was left to imagination.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver the Beautiful,
Goddess of Honesty.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She was trailed by about thirty
servants, not to mention her high priest and a good six lesser
priests. The firemasters grew excited, noticing that they now had
not one, but two divine attendants. The apprentices went about in a
flurry of motion, setting up another series of firefountains. A
group of Blushweaver&#8217;s servants rushed forward, carrying an
ornate couch, which they set on the grass beside Lightsong.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver lay down with
customary litheness, crossing perfect legs and resting on her side
in a seductive, lady-like pose. The orientation left her capable of
watching the fireworks should she wish, but her attention was
obviously focused on Lightsong.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My dear
Lightsong,&#8221; she said as a servant approached with a bunch of
grapes. &#8220;Aren&#8217;t you even going to acknowledge
me?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Here we go,</i> Lightsong
thought with resignation. &#8220;My dear Blushweaver,&#8221; he
said, setting aside his cup and lacing his fingers before him.
&#8220;Why would I go and do something rude like that?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Rude?&#8221; she asked,
amused.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course. You obviously
make quite a determined effort to draw attention to yourself--the
details are magnificent, by the way. Is that makeup on your
thighs?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She smiled, biting into a
grape. &#8220;It&#8217;s a kind of paint, my dear. The designs were
drawn by some of the most talented artists in my
priesthood.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My compliments to
them,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;The patterns certainly draw the
eye. And, they are a point unto my argument. You need no
acknowledgement, my dear. Your mere presence is its own
acknowledgement. Were I to go so far as to <i>point out</i> your
display, then I would simply be undermining it. It would be like. .
.shouting encouragement to the puppeteer as he gives his
show.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver raised an eyebrow.
&#8220;But, didn&#8217;t your very explanation do just
that?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Only because you forced
my hand, my dear,&#8221; Lightsong said as the fireworks went off
again. With two Gods and their auras, the colors of the sparks grew
quite powerful indeed.&#160; On the far side, some sparks left the
Breath Auras, and these fell to the ground looking dull and weak.
as if their fire were cool and insignificant enough that it could
be picked up and tucked away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I see,&#8221;
Blushweaver said, eyeing the fireworks. &#8220;You seem captivated
by the fire show. Is it that much more fascinating than
I?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Not at all. It simply
seems far less likely to burn me.&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver smiled. &#8220;Then
you admit that you find me beautiful?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course. Why, my dear,
you&#8217;re positively <i>rank</i> with beauty. You&#8217;re
literally part of the definition of the word--it&#8217;s in your
name somewhere, I do believe.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My dear Lightsong,
<i>I</i> do believe that you&#8217;re making sport of
me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I never make fun of
ladies, Blushweaver,&#8221; Lightsong said, picking up his drink
again. &#8220;Mocking a woman is like drinking too much wine. It
may be fun for a short time, but the hangover is hell.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver paused.&#160;
&#8220;But we don&#8217;t get hangovers.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, of course. And
that, my dear, is why I had to mock you. Please forgive me. It was
but an inevitability forced on an unwilling servant.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver opened her mouth to
reply, then closed it. &#8220;Sometimes,&#8221; she finally said,
&#8220;I&#8217;m not certain when you are being silly and when
you&#8217;re being serious, Lightsong.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, I can help you
with that one easily enough,&#8221; he said. &#8220;If you
<i>ever</i> think I&#8217;m being serious, then you can know that
you&#8217;ve been working too hard on the problem.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I see,&#8221; she said,
twisting on her couch so that she was face down. She leaned on her
elbows with breasts pushed up between them, fireworks lighting her
exposed back. &#8220;So, then. You admit that I&#8217;m captivating
and beautiful. Would you then care to retire from the festivities
this evening? Find. . .other entertainments?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong hesitated.&#160;
Being unable to bear children didn&#8217;t stop the Gods from
seeking intimacy, particularly with other Returned. In fact, from
what Lightsong could guess, the impossibility of offspring only
increased the laxness of the Court in these matters. Many a God
took mortal lovers--Blushweaver was known to have a few of her own
among her priests. Distractions with mortals were never seen as
infidelity among Gods.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver lounged on her
couch, supple, inviting. Lightsong opened his mouth, but in his
mind, he saw. . .her. The woman of vision from his dreams, the face
he&#8217;d mentioned to Llarimar. Who was she?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Probably nothing. A flash from
his former life, or perhaps simply an image crafted by his
subconscious. Maybe even, as the priests claimed, some kind of
prophetic symbol. The face shouldn&#8217;t give him pause. Not when
faced with perfection. &#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I. . .must
decline,&#8221; he found himself saying. &#8220;I am,
unfortunately, too lazy for such things.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Too lazy for sex?&#8221;
Blushweaver asked, rolling back onto her side and regarding
him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m really quite
indolent. &#160;A poor example of a God, as I keep telling my high
priest. Nobody seems to listen to me, so I fear that I must
continue to be diligent in proving my point. Dallying with you
would, unfortunately, undermine my entire basis for
argument.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver shook her head.
&#8220;You confuse me sometimes, Lightsong. If it weren&#8217;t for
your reputation, I&#8217;d simply presume you to be shy. How could
you have slept with Calmseer, but consistently ignore
me?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Calmseer was the last
honorable Returned this city has known,</i> Lightsong thought,
sipping his drink. <i>Nobody left has a shred of her decency.
Myself included.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver fell silent,
watching the latest display from the firemasters. The show had
grown progressively more ornate, and Lightsong was considering
calling the men off, lest they use all of their fireworks on him
and not have any left should another God call upon them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver didn&#8217;t make
any moves to return to her own pavilion, and Lightsong let her be.
He suspected that she hadn&#8217;t come simply for verbal sparring,
or even to try and bed him. No, Blushweaver had her plans. In
Lightsong&#8217;s experience, there was more depth to the woman
than at first glance.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Eventually, his hunch paid off.
She turned from the fireworks, eying the dark palace of the God
King.&#160; &#8220;We have a new queen.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I noticed,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;Though, admittedly, only because I was
reminded several times.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They fell silent.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Have you no thoughts on
the matter?&#8221; Blushweaver finally asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I try to avoid having
thoughts. They lead to other thoughts, and--if you&#8217;re not
careful--those lead to actions. Actions make you tired. I have this
on rather good authority from someone who once read it in a
book.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver sighed.&#160;
&#8220;You avoid thinking, you avoid me, you avoid effort. . .is
there anything you <i>don&#8217;t</i> avoid?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Breakfast.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver didn&#8217;t react
to this, which Lightsong found disappointing. She was too focused
on the King&#8217;s palace. Lightsong often tried to ignore the
large black building; he didn&#8217;t like how it seemed to tower
over him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Perhaps you should make
an exception,&#8221; Blushweaver said, &#8220;and give some thought
to <i>this</i> particular situation. This queen means
something.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We&#8217;ve had queens
before.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Never one of the Royal
line,&#8221; Blushweaver said. &#8220;At least, there hasn&#8217;t
been one since the days of Klad the Usurper.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Klad. The man who had started
the Manywar, the one who had used his knowledge of BioChromatic
Breath to create a vast army of Lifeless and seize power in
Hallandren. He had protected the kingdom, yet shattered it, driving
the Royals into the highlands.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Now they were back.&#160; Or,
at least, one of them was.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;This is a dangerous day,
Lightsong,&#8221; Blushweaver said quietly. &#8220;What happens if
that woman bears a child who isn&#8217;t Returned?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Impossible,&#8221;
Lightsong said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh? You are that
confident?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong nodded. &#8220;Of the
Returned, only the God King can bear children, and they&#8217;re
always stillborn.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver shook her head.
&#8220;The only word we have on that is from the palace priests
themselves.&#160; Yet, I&#8217;ve heard of. . .discrepancies in the
records. Even if we don&#8217;t worry about those, there are plenty
of other considerations. Why do we need a Royal to
&#8216;legitimize&#8217; our throne? Isn&#8217;t three hundred
years of rule by the Court of Gods enough to make the kingdom
legitimate?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong shrugged.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;This marriage says that
we still accept Royal authority,&#8221; Blushweaver said.
&#8220;What happens if that king up in the highlands decides to
take his kingdom back? What happens if that queen of ours in there
has a child by another man? Who is the heir? Who rules?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The God King rules.
Everyone knows that.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He didn&#8217;t rule
three hundred years ago,&#8221; Blushweaver said. &#8220;The Royals
did. Then, after them, Klad did--and after him, Peacegiver. Change
can happen quickly. By inviting that woman into our city, we could
have initiated the end of Returned rule in Hallandren.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She fell silent, pensive.
Lightsong studied the beautiful Goddess. It had been fifteen years
since her Return--which made her old, for a Returned. Old, wise,
and incredibly crafty.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver glanced at him.
&#8220;I don&#8217;t intend to find myself caught, surprised, like
the Royals were when Klad seized their throne. Some of us are
planning, Lightsong. You can join us, if you wish.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Politics, my
dear,&#8221; he said with a sigh. &#8220;You know how I loath
them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;re the God of
bravery. We could use your confidence.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;At this point, I&#8217;m
only confident that I&#8217;ll be of no use to you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her face grew impassive.&#160;
Eventually, she sighed and stood, stretching, showing off her
perfect figure once again. &#8220;You&#8217;ll have to stand for
something eventually, Lightsong,&#8221; she said.
&#8220;You&#8217;re a god to this people.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Not by choice, my
dear.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She smiled, then bent down and
kissed him softly. &#8220;Just consider what I said. You&#8217;re a
better man than you give yourself credit for being. You think
I&#8217;d offer myself to just anyone?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He hesitated, then frowned.
&#8220;Actually. . .yes. I do.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She laughed, turning as her
servants picked up her couch. &#8220;Oh, come now! There&#8217;ve
got to be at least <i>three</i> of the other Gods I wouldn&#8217;t
<i>think</i> of letting touch me. Enjoy the party, and do try to
imagine what our King is doing to our legacy up in his chambers
right now.&#160; She glanced back at him. &#8220;Particularly if
that imagining reminds you of what you just missed out on.&#8221;
She winked, then trailed away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong sat back on his
couch, then dismissed the firemasters with words of praise. As the
minstrels began to play, he tried to empty his mind of
Blushweaver&#8217;s ominous words.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He failed.</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Eight</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri groaned, rolling over. Her
back hurt, her arms hurt, and her head hurt. In fact, she was so
uncomfortable that she couldn&#8217;t stay asleep, despite her
fatigue. She sat up, holding her head.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She&#8217;d spent the night on
the floor of the God King&#8217;s bed chamber--sleeping, kind of.
Sunlight poured into the room, reflecting off of the marble where
the floor wasn&#8217;t covered with rugs.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Black rugs,</i> she thought,
sitting in the middle of the rumpled blue dress, which she&#8217;d
used as both blanket and pillow. <i>Black rugs on a black floor
with black furniture.&#160; These Hallandrens certainly know how to
run with a motif.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The God King wasn&#8217;t in
the room. Siri glanced toward the oversized black leather chair
where he&#8217;d spent much of the night. She hadn&#8217;t seen him
leave.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She yawned, then rose, pulling
her shift out of the wadded mound of dress and putting it on. She
pulled her hair out, flipping it behind her. Keeping it so long was
going to take some getting used to. It fell down against her back,
a contented blonde in color.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She&#8217;d survived the night
untouched. Somehow.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She walked on bare feet over to
the leather chair, running her fingers along its smooth surface.
She&#8217;d been less than respectful. She&#8217;d dozed off.
She&#8217;d curled up and pulled her dress close for warmth.
She&#8217;d even glanced over at the chair a few times. Not because
of defiance or a disobedient heart; she&#8217;d simply been too
drowsy to remember that she wasn&#8217;t supposed to look at the
God King.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He hadn&#8217;t ordered her
executed. Bluefingers had had made her worry that the God King was
volatile and quick to anger. Yet, if that were the case, then he
had held his temper with her. What else was he going to do? The
Hallandren had waited for decades to get a Royal princess to marry
into their line of God Kings. She smiled. <i>I do have some
power.</i> He couldn&#8217;t kill her--not until he had what he
wanted.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It wasn&#8217;t much. But, it
did give her a bit more confidence. She walked around the chair,
noting its size. Everything in the room was built as if to be just
a little too large, skewing her perspective, making her feel
shorter than she was. She rested her hand on the arm of the chair,
and found herself wondering why he hadn&#8217;t decided to take
her. What was wrong with her? Wasn&#8217;t she desirable?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Foolish girl,</i> she told
herself, shaking her head and walking over to the still-undisturbed
bed. <i>You spent most of the trip here worrying about what would
happen on your wedding night, and then when nothing happens, you
complain about that too?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She knew she wasn&#8217;t free.
He would take her eventually--that was the point of the entire
arrangement. But, it hadn&#8217;t happened last night. She smiled,
yawning. Then, she climbed up into the bed and curled up in the
covers, drifting off.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The next time she woke was a
great deal more pleasant than the previous had been. Siri
stretched, and then noticed something.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her dress, which she&#8217;d
left sitting in a heap on the floor, was gone. Also, the fire in
the hearth had been stoked--though why that was necessary was
beyond her. The day was warm, and she&#8217;d kicked off most of
the covers as she&#8217;d slept.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I&#8217;m supposed to burn
the sheets,</i> she remembered. <i>That&#8217;s the reason they
rebuilt the fire.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She sat up in her shift, alone
in the black room. The servants and priests wouldn&#8217;t know
that she&#8217;d spent the night on the floor unless the God King
had told someone. How likely would a man of his power be to speak
with his priests about intimate details?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Slowly, Siri climbed out of bed
and pulled the sheets free. She wadded them up, walked over, and
threw them into the large hearth. Then she watched the flames. She
still didn&#8217;t know why the God King had left her alone. Until
she knew, it seemed better to just let everyone assume that the
wedding had been consummated.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;After the sheets were finished
burning, Siri scanned the room, looking for something to wear. She
found nothing. Sighing, she walked to the door, clothed only in her
shift.&#160; She pulled it open, and jumped slightly. Two dozen
serving women of varying ages knelt outside.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>God of Colors!</i> Siri
thought. <i>How long have they been kneeling out here?</i>
Suddenly, she didn&#8217;t feel quite so indignant at being forced
to wait upon the God King&#8217;s whims. Apparently, she&#8217;d
just done something similar to these women.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The women stood up, heads
bowed, and walked into the room. Siri backed up, cocking her head
she noticed that several of the women carried in large chests.
<i>They&#8217;re dressed in different colors from the day
before,</i> Siri thought. The cut was the same--divided skirts,
like flowing trousers, topped with sleeveless blouses and small
caps, their hair coming out the back.&#160; Instead of the blue and
silver, the outfits were now yellow and copper.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The women opened the trunks,
removing various layers of clothing. &#160;All were of bright
colors, and each was of a different cut. The women spread them out
on the floor before Siri, then settled back on their knees,
waiting.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri hesitated. She&#8217;d
grown up the daughter of a king, so she&#8217;d never really
lacked. Yet, life in Idris was austere. She&#8217;d owned five
dresses, which had been nearly been an extravagant number. One had
been white, and the other four had been the same wan blue.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Being confronted by so many
colors and options felt overwhelming. She stood, trying to imagine
how each would look on her. Many of them were dangerously low cut,
even more so than the shirts the serving women wore--and those were
already scandalous by Idris standards.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Finally, hesitantly, Siri
pointed at one outfit. It was a dress in two pieces, red skirt and
matching blouse. As Siri pointed, the serving women stood, some
putting away the unchosen outfits, others walking over to carefully
remove Siri&#8217;s shift.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;In a few minutes, Siri was
dressed. She was embarrassed to find that--while the clothing fit
her perfectly--the blouse was designed to reveal her midriff.
Still, it wasn&#8217;t as low cut as the others, and the skirt went
all the way down to her calves. The silky red material was far
lighter than the thick wools and linen she was accustomed to
wearing. The skirt flared and ruffled when she turned, and Siri
couldn&#8217;t be completely certain it wasn&#8217;t sheer.
Standing in it, she almost felt as naked as she&#8217;d been during
the night.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>That appears to be a
recurring theme for me here,</i> she thought wryly as the serving
women backed away, bowing. Others approached with a stool, and she
sat, waiting as the women cleaned her face and arms with a
pleasantly warm cloth. When that was done, they re-applied her
makeup, did her hair, then sprayed her with a few puffs of
perfume.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;When she opened her
eyes--perfume misting down around her--Bluefingers was standing in
the room. &#8220;Ah, excellent,&#8221; he said, servant boy
standing obediently behind with ink, quill, and paper.
&#8220;You&#8217;re up already.&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Already?</i> Siri thought.
<i>It has to be well past noon.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers looked her over,
nodded to himself, then glanced at the bed, obviously checking to
see that the linens had been destroyed. &#8220;Well,&#8221; he
said. &#8220;I trust that your servants will see to your needs,
Vessel.&#8221; With that, he began to walk away with the anxious
feet of a man who felt he had far too much to do.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Wait!&#8221; Siri said,
standing, jostling several of her serving women.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers hesitated.&#160;
&#8220;Vessel?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri floundered, uncertain how
to express what she was feeling. &#8220;Do you know. . .what
I&#8217;m supposed to do?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Do, Vessel?&#8221; the
scribe asked. &#8220;You mean, in regards to. . . .&#8221; he
glanced at the bed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri flushed. &#8220;No, not
that. I mean with my time. What are my duties? What is expected of
me?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;To provide an
heir.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Beyond that.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers frowned.&#160;
&#8220;I. . .well, to be honest, Vessel, I really don&#8217;t know.
I must say, your marriage has certainly caused a level of. .
.disruption in the Court of Gods.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>In my life, too,</i> she
thought.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;In the past,&#8221;
Bluefingers said, &#8220;the God King always married a Goddess.
She, therefore, could live in her own palace and attend her own
duties, watched by her own servants. She only needed to visit the
palace at night. You, however, have neither palace nor servants. We
could provide you with a palace in Court--there are several that
are unoccupied--but, you&#8217;re not Returned, so it probably
wouldn&#8217;t be appropriate.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He paused, eyeing her--as if
all of this were her fault. &#8220;My lady, you are--I&#8217;m
afraid--a bureaucratic nightmare.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri fell silent, flushing
slightly, hair turning red.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Not that you&#8217;re to
blame, of course,&#8221; Bluefingers said quickly. &#8220;But,
then. . .well, I certainly wish I&#8217;d had more
forewarning.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;More forewarning?&#8221;
Siri asked. &#8220;This marriage was arranged by treaty over twenty
years ago!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, well, but nobody
thought. . . .&#8221; he trailed off. &#8220;Ahem. Well, either
way, we shall do our best to accommodate you here in the
King&#8217;s palace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>What was that?</i> Siri
thought. <i>Nobody thought. . .that the marriage would really
happen?&#160; Why not? Did they assume that Idris wouldn&#8217;t
keep it&#8217;s part of the bargain?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Anyway,&#8221;
Bluefingers said, inching toward the door again, &#8220;if you have
no further need of me. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I still don&#8217;t know
what I&#8217;m supposed to <i>do</i>,&#8221; Siri said, sitting
down on the stool again.&#160; &#8220;Am I to sit here in the
palace and stare at the fire all day?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers chuckled.&#160;
&#8220;Oh, Colors no! My lady, this is the Court of the Gods!
You&#8217;ll find plenty to occupy you. Each day, performers are
allowed to enter the Court and display their talents for their
deities. You may have any of these brought to you for a private
performance.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ah,&#8221; Siri said.
&#8220;Can I, maybe, go horseback riding?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers rubbed his chin.
&#8220;I suppose we could bring some horses into the Court for you.
Of course, we&#8217;d have to wait until the Wedding Jubilations
are over.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Wedding
Jubilations?&#8221; she asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You. . .don&#8217;t
know, then? Were you not prepared for any of this?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri flushed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No offense intended,
Vessel,&#8221; Bluefingers said. &#8220;The Wedding Jubilation is a
week long period in which we celebrate the God King&#8217;s
marriage. During that time, you are not to leave this palace. At
the end of it, you will officially be presented to the Court of
Gods.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh,&#8221; she said.
&#8220;And, after that, I can go out of the city?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Out of the city!&#8221;
Bluefingers said. &#8220;Vessel, you can&#8217;t leave the Court of
Gods!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;<i>What</i>?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You may not be a God
yourself,&#8221; Bluefingers continued. &#8220;But you&#8217;re the
wife of the God King. It would be far too dangerous to let you out.
But do not fret--anything and everything you might request can be
provided for you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Except freedom,</i> she
thought, feeling a bit sick.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I assure you, once the
Wedding Jubilation is over, you will find little to complain about.
Everything you could want is here: every type of indulgence, every
luxury, every diversion.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri nodded numbly, still
feeling trapped.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Also,&#8221; Bluefingers
said, holding up an ink stained finger. &#8220;If you wish, the
Court of Judgment meets to provide decisions to the people. Full
court meets once a week, though daily there are smaller judgments
to be made. You aren&#8217;t to sit on the court itself, of course,
but you will certainly be allowed to attend, once the Jubilation is
over. If none of this suits you, you may request an artist of the
God King&#8217;s priesthood to attend you. His priests include
devout and accomplished artists from all genres: music, painting,
dance, poetry, sculpture, puppetry, play performance, sandpainting,
or any of the lesser genres.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri blinked. <i>God of
Colors!</i> she thought. <i>Even being idle is daunting here.</i>
&#8220;But,&#8221; she said, &#8220;there isn&#8217;t any of this
that I&#8217;m <i>required</i> to attend?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No, I shouldn&#8217;t
think so,&#8221; Bluefingers said. &#8220;Vessel, you look
displeased.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I. . . .&#8221; How
could she explain? Her entire life, she&#8217;d been expected to be
something--and for most of her life she&#8217;d intentionally
avoided being it. Now that was gone from her. She couldn&#8217;t
disobey lest she get herself killed and get Idris into a war. For
once, she was willing to serve, to try and be obedient.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But, ironically, there
didn&#8217;t seem to be anything for her to do. Except, of course,
bear a child and not antagonize the God King. &#8220;Very
well,&#8221; she said with a sigh. &#8220;Where are my rooms?
I&#8217;ll go there and situate myself.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your rooms,
Vessel?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes. I assume I&#8217;m
not to reside in this chamber itself.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; Bluefingers
said, chuckling. &#8220;The Conception room? Of course
not.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then where?&#8221; Siri
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Vessel,&#8221;
Bluefingers said. &#8220;This entire place is, in a way, yours. I
don&#8217;t see why you&#8217;d need specific rooms. Ask to eat,
and your servants will set up a table. If you wish to rest, they
will bring you a couch or a chair. Seek entertainment, and they
will fetch for you performers.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Suddenly, the strange actions
of her servants--simply bringing her an array of colors to choose
from, then doing her makeup and hair right there--made more sense.
&#8220;I see,&#8221; she said, almost to herself. &#8220;And, the
soldiers I brought with me? Did they do as I commanded?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, Vessel,&#8221;
Bluefingers said. &#8220;They left this morning. It was a wise
decision; they are not dedicated servants of the Tones, and would
not have been allowed to stay here in the Court. They could do you
no further service.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri nodded, though knowing
they were gone made her feel even more alone.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Vessel, if I might be
excused. . . ?&#8221; Bluefingers asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri nodded distractedly, and
Bluefingers bustled away, leaving her to think about how terribly
alone she suddenly was. <i>Can&#8217;t focus on that,</i> she
thought. Instead, she turned to one of her serving women--a younger
one, about Siri&#8217;s own age.&#160; &#8220;Well, that really
doesn&#8217;t tell me what to spend my time on, does it?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The servant blushed quietly,
bowing her head.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I mean, there seems to
be a lot to do, if I want,&#8221; Siri said. &#8220;Maybe too
much.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The girl bowed again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>That&#8217;s going to get
very annoying very quickly,</i> Siri thought, gritting her teeth.
Part of her wanted to do something shocking to get a reaction out
of the servant, but she knew she was just being foolish. In fact,
it seemed that many of her natural impulses and reactions
wouldn&#8217;t work here in Hallandren. So, too keep herself from
doing something silly, Siri stood up, determined to examine her new
home.&#160; She left the overly-black room, poking her head out
into the hallway. She turned back to her servants, who stood
obediently in a line behind her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Is there any place
I&#8217;m forbidden to go?&#8221; she asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The one she was addressing
shook her head.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Fine, then,</i> she thought.
<i>I&#8217;d better not end up stumbling upon the God King in the
bath.</i>&#160; She crossed the hallway, opened the door, then
stepped into the yellow room she&#8217;d been in the day before.
The chair and bench she&#8217;d used had been removed, replaced by
a group of yellow couches. Siri raised an eyebrow, then walked
through into the tub room beyond.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The tub was gone. She started.
The room was the one she remembered, with same red colorings. Yet,
the sloped tile platforms with their inset tubs were gone. The
entire contraption must have been portable, brought in for her
bath, then removed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>They really</i>
can<i>transform any room,</i> she thought with amazement. <i>They
must have chambers full furniture, tubs, and drapings, each of a
different color, waiting upon the whims of their God.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Curious, she left the tub-less
room and moved in a random direction. Each room appeared to have
four doors, one on each wall. Some rooms were larger than others.
Some had windows to the outside, while others were locked in the
middle of the palace. Each was a different color. Yet it was still
difficult to tell the difference between them. Endless rooms,
pristine with their decorations following a single color&#8217;s
theme. Soon, she was hopelessly lost--but it didn&#8217;t seem to
matter.&#160; Every room was, in a way, the same as any other.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She turned to her servants.
&#8220;I would like breakfast.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And it happened. Far faster
than Siri would have thought possible. Several of the women ducked
out and returned with a stuffed green chair to match her current
room. Siri sat down, waiting as a table, chairs, and finally food
were produced as if out of nowhere. In less than fifteen minutes,
she had a hot meal waiting for her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hesitantly, she picked up a
fork and tried a bite. It wasn&#8217;t until that moment that she
realized how hungry she was. The meal was composed primarily of a
group of sausages mixed with vegetables. The flavors were far
stronger than she was accustomed to.&#160; However, the more she
ate the spicy Hallandren food, the more she found herself liking
it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hungry or not, it was strange
to eat in silence. Siri was accustomed to either eating in the
kitchens with the servants or at the table with her father, his
generals, and whatever local people or monks he had invited to his
table that evening. It was never a silent affair.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Yet here in Hallandren--land of
colors, sounds, and ostentation--she found herself eating alone,
quietly, in a room that felt dull despite its bright
decorations.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her servants watched.&#160;
None of them spoke to her. Their silence was supposed to be
respectful, she knew, but Siri just found it intimidating. She
tried several times to draw them into conversation, but she managed
to get only terse replies.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She chewed on a spiced caper.
<i>Is this what my life is to be from now on?</i> she thought. <i>A
night spent feeling half-used, half-ignored my husband, then days
spent surrounded by people, yet somehow still alone?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shivered, her appetite
waning. She set down the fork, and her food slowly grew cold on the
table before her. She stared at it, a piece of her wishing
she&#8217;s simply remained in the comfortable, oversized black
bed.&#160;</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Nine</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Three days later, Lightsong had
to hear Petitions. It was annoying, since the Wedding Jubilation
wasn&#8217;t even over.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Yet, the people needed their
Gods. He knew he shouldn&#8217;t feel annoyed. He&#8217;d gotten
three days off for the royal wedding--copiously unattended by
either the bride or groom--and that was enough. All he had to do
was spend a few hours each day looking at art and listening to the
woes of the people. It wasn&#8217;t much. Even if it did wear away
at his sanity.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He sighed, sitting back in his
throne-like chair. He wore an embroidered cap on his head, matched
by a lose robe of gold and red. The garment wrapped over both
shoulders, twisted about his body, and was hung with ruffled golden
tassels. Like all of his clothing, it was even <i>more</i>
complicated to put on than it looked.<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>If my servants were to
suddenly leave me,</i> he thought with amusement, <i>I&#8217;d be
totally incapable of getting dressed.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He leaned his head on one fist,
elbow on the throne&#8217;s arm rest. This room of his palace
opened directly out onto the lawn--harsh weather was rare in
Hallandren, and a cool breeze blew in off of the sea, smelling of
brine. He closed his eyes, breathing in.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He&#8217;d dreamed of the
waters again last night. Llarimar had found that particularly
meaningful.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Next petition, your
grace,&#8221; Llarimar whispered from his side.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong sighed, opening his
eyes. Both edges of the room were lined with priests in their coifs
and robes. Where had he gotten so many? Did any god need that much
attention?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He could see a line of people
extending outside on the lawn. They were a sorry, forlorn lot,
several coughing from some malady or another. <i>So many,</i> he
thought as a woman was led into the room. He&#8217;d been seeing
petitioners for over an hour already.&#160; <i>I guess I should
have expected this. It&#8217;s been four days.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Scoot,&#8221; he said,
turning to his priest. &#8220;Go tell those waiting people to sit
down in the grass. There&#8217;s no reason for them to all stand
there like that. This could take some time.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar hesitated. Standing
was, of course, a sign of respect. However, he nodded, waving over
a lesser priest to carry the message.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Such a crowd, waiting to see
me,</i> Lightsong thought. <i>What will it take to convince the
people that I&#8217;m useless?</i> What would it take to get them
to stop coming to him? After five years of petitions, he honestly
wasn&#8217;t certain if he could take another five.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The newest petitioner
approached his throne. She carried a child in her arms.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Not a child. . . .</i>
Lightsong thought, cringing mentally.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Great One,&#8221; the
woman said, falling to her knees on the carpet. &#8220;Lord of
Bravery.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong didn&#8217;t
speak.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;This is my child,
Halan,&#8221; the woman said holding out the baby. His blanket
burst with a sharp blue color--two and half steps from pure--as it
got close enough to Lightsong&#8217;s aura. He could easily see
that the child was suffering from a terrible sickness. It had lost
so much weight that its skin almost seemed shriveled.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong took a deep breath.
The baby&#8217;s Breath was so weak that it flickered like a candle
running out of wick. It would be dead before the day was out.
Perhaps before the hour was out.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The healers, they say he
has deathfeaver,&#8221; the woman said. &#8220;I know that
he&#8217;s going to die.&#8221; The baby made a sound--a kind of
half-cough, perhaps the closest it could get to a cry.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Please, Great
One,&#8221; the woman said. She sniffled, then bowed her head.
&#8220;Oh, please. He was brave, like you. My Breath, it would be
yours. The Breaths of my entire family. Service for a hundred
years, anything. Please, just heal him.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong closed his eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Please,&#8221; the woman
whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I cannot,&#8221;
Lightsong said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Silence.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I <i>cannot</i>,&#8221;
Lightsong said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Thank you, my
lord,&#8221; the woman finally whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong opened his eyes to
see the woman being led away, weeping quietly, child clutched close
to her breast. The line of people watched her go, looking miserable
yet hopeful at the same time. One more petitioner had failed. That
meant they would get a chance.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A chance to beg Lightsong to
kill himself.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong stood suddenly,
grabbing the cap off his head and tossing it asked. He rushed away,
throwing open a door at the back of the room. It slammed against
the wall as he stumbled through the doorway.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Servants and priests
immediately followed after him. He turned on them.
&#160;&#8220;Go!&#8221; he said, waving them away. Many of them
showed looks of surprise, unaccustomed to any kind of forcefulness
on their master&#8217;s part.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Leave me
<i>be</i>!&#8221; he shouted, towering over them. Colors in the
room flared brighter in response to his emotion, and the servants
backed down, confused, stumbling back out into the petition hall
and pulling the door closed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong stood alone.&#160; He
placed one hand against the wall, breathing in and out, other hand
against his forehead. Why was he sweating so? He&#8217;d been
through thousands of petitions, and many had been worse than the
one he&#8217;d just seen. He&#8217;d sent pregnant women to their
deaths, doomed children and parents, consigned misery to the
innocent and the faithful.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;There was no reason to
over-react. He could take it. It was a little thing, really. Just
like eating the Breath of a new person every week. A small price to
pay. . . .</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The door opened and a figure
stepped in.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong didn&#8217;t
turn.&#160; &#8220;What do they want of me, Llarimar?&#8221; he
demanded. &#8220;Do they really think I&#8217;ll do it? Lightsong,
the selfish? &#160;Do they really think I&#8217;d give my life for
one of them?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar was quiet for a few
moments. &#8220;You offer hope, your grace,&#8221; he finally said.
&#8220;A last, unlikely hope. Hope is part of faith--part of the
knowledge that someday, <i>one</i> of your followers will receive a
miracle.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And if they&#8217;re
wrong?&#8221; Lightsong asked. &#8220;I have no desire to die.
I&#8217;m an idle man, fond of luxury. People like me don&#8217;t
give up their lives, even if they do happen to be gods.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar didn&#8217;t
reply.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The good ones are all
already dead, Scoot,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;Calmseer,
Brighthue: those were Gods who would give themselves away. The rest
of us are selfish. There hasn&#8217;t been a petition granted in
what, three years?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;About that, your
grace,&#8221; Llarimar said quietly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And, why should it be
different?&#8221; Lightsong said, laughing a bit. &#8220;I mean, we
have to <i>die</i> to heal one of them. Doesn&#8217;t that strike
you as ridiculous? What kind of religion encourages its members to
come and petition for their god&#8217;s life?&#8221; Lightsong
shook his head. &#8220;It&#8217;s ironic. We&#8217;re gods to them
only until they kill us.&#160; And I think I might know why it
happens. It&#8217;s those petitions, being forced to sit day after
day, knowing that you <i>could</i> save one of them--that you
probably should, since your life isn&#8217;t really worth anything.
That&#8217;s enough to drive a man mad. Enough to drive him to kill
himself!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He smiled, glancing at his high
priest. &#8220;Suicide by Divine manifestation. Very
dramatic.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Shall I call off the
rest of the Petitions, your grace?&#8221; Llarimar gave no sign of
being annoyed by the outburst.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Sure, why not,&#8221;
Lightsong said, waving a hand. &#8220;They really need a lesson in
theology. They should <i>already</i> know what a useless god I am.
Send them away, tell them to come back tomorrow--assuming that they
are foolish enough to do so.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, your grace,&#8221;
Llarimar said, bowing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Doesn&#8217;t that man ever
get mad at me?</i> Lightsong thought. <i>He, more than any, should
know that I&#8217;m not a person to rely upon!</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong turned, walking away
as Llarimar went back into the petition room. No servants tried to
follow him. Lightsong pushed his way through red-hued room after
red-hued room, eventually finding his way to a stairwell and
climbing up to the second story.&#160; This floor was open on all
sides, really nothing more than a large covered patio. He walked to
the far side--the one opposite the line of people.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The breeze was strong here. He
felt it ruffling at his robes, bringing with it scents that had had
likely traveled hundreds of miles, across the ocean, twisting
around palm trees and finally entering the Court of Gods. He stood
there for a long time, looking out over the city, toward the sea
beyond. He had no desire, despite what he said, to leave his
comfortable home in the Court. He was not a man of jungles; he was
a man of parties.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But, sometimes he wished that
he could at least <i>want</i> to be something else.
Blushweaver&#8217;s words still weighed upon him. <i>You&#8217;ll
have to stand for something eventually, Lightsong.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You&#8217;re a god to this
people. . . .</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He was. Whether he wanted to be
or not. That was the frustrating part. He&#8217;d tried his best to
be useless and vain. And still they came.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>We could use your
confidence. . .you&#8217;re a better man than you give yourself
credit.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Why did it seem that the more
he proved himself to be an idiot, the more convinced people became
that there had some kind of hidden depth? They called him a liar in
the same breath that they complimented his presumed inner virtue.
Did no one understand that a man could be both likable <i>and</i>
useless? Not every quick-tongued fool was a hidden hero.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;His life sense alerted him of
Llarimar&#8217;s return long before footsteps did. The priest
walked up to join Lightsong at the side of the wall. Llarimar
folded his arms on the railing--which, being built for a god, was
about a foot too high for the priest.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They&#8217;re
gone,&#8221; Llarimar said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ah, very good,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;I do believe that we&#8217;ve accomplished
something today. I&#8217;ve run from my responsibly, screamed at my
servants, and sat about pouting.&#160; Undoubtedly, this will
convince everyone that I&#8217;m <i>far</i> more noble and
honorable than assumed. Tomorrow, there will be twice as many
petitions, and I shall continue my inexorable march toward utter
madness.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You can&#8217;t go
mad,&#8221; Llarimar said softly. &#8220;It&#8217;s
impossible.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Sure I can,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;I just have to concentrate long enough. You
see, the great thing about madness is that it&#8217;s all in your
head, so to speak.&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar shook his head.
&#8220;I see you&#8217;ve been restored to your usual
humor.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But of course.&#8221;
They stood for a few more minutes, Llarimar making no chastisement
or commentary on his God&#8217;s actions. Just like a good little
priest.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That made Lightsong think of
something. &#8220;Scoot,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;You&#8217;re
my high priest.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, your
grace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong sighed. &#8220;You
really need to pay attention to the opportunities I&#8217;m giving
you, Scoot. The proper, sarcastic response to my comment would have
been &#8216;I&#8217;m your priest?&#160; Really? Is that what this
big hat is doing on my head? I thought it was for neck
support.&#8217;&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I apologize, your
grace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Just try harder next
time. Anyway, you know about theology and that sort of thing,
correct?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;ve studied my
share, your grace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well then, what
<i>is</i> the point--religiously--of having Gods that can only heal
one person, then die? It seems counter-productive to me. Easy way
to depopulate your pantheon.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar leaned forward,
staring out over the city. &#8220;It&#8217;s complicated, your
grace. Returned aren&#8217;t just gods--they&#8217;re men who died,
but who decided to come back and offer blessings and knowledge.
After all, only one who has died can have anything useful to say
about the other side.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;True, I
guess.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The thing is, your
grace, Returned aren&#8217;t meant to stay. We extend their lives,
giving them extra time to bless us. But, they&#8217;re really only
supposed to remain alive as long as it takes them to do what they
need to.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Need to?&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;Seems nebulous.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar shrugged.
&#8220;Returned have. . .goals. Objectives which are their own. You
knew of yours before you decided to come back, but the process of
jumping across the Iridescent Wave leaves the memory fragmented.
Stay long enough, and you&#8217;ll remember what you came to
accomplish. The petitions. . .they&#8217;re a way helping you
remember.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So, I&#8217;ve come back
to save one person&#8217;s life?&#8221; Lightsong said, frowning,
but feeling a little embarrassed. In five years, he&#8217;d spent
relatively little time studying his own theology. But, well, that
was the sort of thing priests were for.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Not necessarily, your
grace,&#8221; Llarimar said. &#8220;You could have come back to
save one person. But, more likely, there is information about the
future or the afterlife that you felt you needed to share.
Remember, it was the heroic way in which you died that gave you the
power to Return in the first place. It might related to that,
somehow.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar trailed off slightly,
his eyes growing unfocused. &#8220;You saw something, Lightsong. On
the other side, the future is visible, like a painting that
stretches into the eternal harmonics of all the cosmos. Something
you saw--something about the future--worried you. Rather than
remaining at peace, you took the opportunity that your brave death
afforded you, then Returned to the world. Determined to fix a
problem, share information, or otherwise right something that has
gone wrong.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Anyway, once you feel
that you&#8217;ve accomplished your task, you can use the Petitions
to find someone who deserves your Breath. Then you can continue
your journey across the Iridescent Wave. Our job, as your
followers, is to provide Breath for you and keep you alive until
you can accomplish your goal, whatever it may be. In the meantime,
we pry for auguries and blessings, which can be gleaned only from
one who has touched the future as you have. &#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong didn&#8217;t respond
immediately. &#8220;And, if I don&#8217;t believe?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;In what, your
grace?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;In any of it,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;That Returned are gods, that these visions
are anything more than random imaginings of my brain. What if I
don&#8217;t believe that I had any purpose or plan in
Returning?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then maybe that&#8217;s
what you came back to discover.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So. . .wait.
You&#8217;re saying that on the other side--where I obviously
<i>believed</i> in the other side--I realized that if I Returned I
wouldn&#8217;t believe in the other side, so I came back with the
purpose of discovering faith in the other side, which I only lost
because I Returned in the first place?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar paused. Then, he
smiled. &#8220;That last one breaks down a little bit in the face
of logic, doesn&#8217;t it?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yeah, a little
bit,&#8221; Lightsong said, smiling back. He turned, eyes falling
on the God King&#8217;s palace, standing like a monument above the
other Court structures. &#8220;What do you think of her?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The new queen?&#8221;
Llarimar asked. &#8220;I haven&#8217;t met her, your grace. She
won&#8217;t be presented for another few days.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Not the person. The
implications.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar glanced at him.&#160;
&#8220;Your grace. That smells of an interest in
politics!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Blah blah, yes, I know.
Lightsong is a hypocrite. I&#8217;ll do penance for it later. Now
answer the blasted question.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar smiled. &#8220;I
don&#8217;t know what to think of her, your grace. The Court twenty
years ago thought bringing a Royal daughter here was a good
idea.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Yes,</i> Lightsong thought.
<i>But those that court is gone.</i> The Gods who had made the
treaty had thought melding the Royal line back into Hallandren
would be a good idea. But, those gods--the ones who knew how to
deal with the Idrian girl&#8217;s arrival--arrival were now dead.
They&#8217;d left inferior replacements.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The full court meets in
judgment tomorrow, doesn&#8217;t it?&#8221; Lightsong said, still
looking at the black palace.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, your
grace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Contact Blushweaver. See
if I can share a box with her during the judgments. Perhaps she
will distract me. You know what a headache politics gives
me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You can&#8217;t get
headaches, your grace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong stood for a few
moments. In the distance, he could see the rejected petitioners
trailing out of the gates, returning to the city, leaving their
gods behind.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Could have fooled
me,&#8221; Lightsong said quietly.</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Ten</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But surely we can bend
the rules a little bit,&#8221; Siri said, walking quickly beside
Tridees.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tridees eyed her. The
priest--high priest of the God King--would have been tall even
without the elaborate miter on his head. With it, he seemed to
tower over her like one of the Returned.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Well, a spindly, obnoxious,
disdainful Returned.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;An exception?&#8221; he
asked with his droll Hallandren accent. &#8220;No, I do not think
that will be possible, Vessel.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t see why
not,&#8221; Siri said as a servant pulled open the door in front of
them, allowing them to leave a green-colored room and pass into a
blue one. Tridees respectfully let her pass through the doorway
first, though she could see that he was displeased he had to do
so.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Well,</i> she thought. <i>If
he finds</i> that <i>displeasing, he should try spending an entire
week cooped up in a stone palace with nobody to talk to but mute
servants, disdainful priests, and overworked scribes.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri ground her teeth, trying
to think of another avenue of attack. <i>Vivenna would be calm and
logical,</i> she thought. <i>She&#8217;d explain the situation in a
way that made sense, so that the priest listened to her.</i> Siri
took a deep breath, trying to ease the red from her hair and the
frustration from her attitude.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Look. Couldn&#8217;t I,
maybe, just go on <i>one</i> trip outside? Just into the Court
itself?&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Impossible,&#8221;
Tridees said. &#8220;If you lack for entertainment, why not have
your servants send for minstrels or jugglers? I&#8217;m sure they
could keep you occupied.&#8221; <i>And out of my hair,</i> his tone
seemed to imply.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Couldn&#8217;t he understand?
It wasn&#8217;t lack of something to do that frustrated her. It was
that she shouldn&#8217;t see the sky. Couldn&#8217;t feel free,
couldn&#8217;t run away from walls and locks and rules.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Barring that, she would have
settled for someone to talk to.&#160; &#8220;At least let me meet
with one of the Gods. I mean, really--what is accomplished by
keeping me locked up like this?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;re not
&#8216;locked up&#8217;, Vessel,&#8221; Tridees said. &#8220;You
are observing a period of isolation in which you can dedicate
yourself wholly to your new husband. It is an ancient and worthy
ritual, one that shows respect for the God King and his
monarchy.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, but this is
Hallandren,&#8221; Siri said. &#8220;It&#8217;s the land of laxness
and frivolity! Surely you can see your way to making an
exception.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tridees stopped up short.
&#8220;We do <i>not</i> make exceptions in matters of religion,
Vessel. I must assume that you are testing me in some way, for I
find it hard to believe that anyone worthy of touching our God King
could harbor such vulgar thoughts.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri cringed. <i>Four days in
the city,</i> she thought, <i>and I&#8217;ve already started
letting my tongue get me into trouble.</i> That was something she
should have learned from Vivenna. Siri didn&#8217;t dislike
people--she loved to talk to them, spend time with them, laugh with
them. However, she couldn&#8217;t make them do what she wanted, not
in the way that a politician was supposed to be able to do.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She and Tridees continued
walking. Siri wore a long, flowing brown skirt that covered up her
feet and had a train that trailed behind her. The priest was
wearing golds and maroons--colors matched by the servants. It still
amazed her that everyone in the palace had so many costumes, even
if they were identical save for color.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She knew that she
shouldn&#8217;t let herself get annoyed with the priests. They
already didn&#8217;t seem to like her, and getting snappy
wouldn&#8217;t help. It was just that the last few days had been so
<i>dull</i>. Trapped in the palace, unable to leave, unable to find
anyone to talk to, she found herself nearly going mad.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But there would be no
exceptions. Apparently.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Will that be all,
Vessel?&#8221; Tridees asked, pausing beside a door. It almost
seemed like he found it a chore to remain civil toward her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri sighed, but nodded. The
priest bowed, then opened the door and quickly rushed away. Siri
watched him go, tapping her foot, arms folded. Her servants stood
arrayed behind her, silent as always. She considered finding
Bluefingers, but. . .no.&#160; He always had so much to do, and she
felt bad distracting him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That left her with nothing.
Sighing again, she motioned for her servants to prepare the evening
meal. Two fetched a chair from the side of the room. Siri sat,
resting as food was gathered. The chair was plush, but it was still
difficult to sit in a way that didn&#8217;t aggravate one of her
aches or cramps. Each of the last four nights, she had been forced
to kneel on the floor, naked, until she finally grew so drowsy that
she drifted off. Sleeping on the hard stone had left a dull, almost
ever-present, pain in her back and neck.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Each morning, once the God King
was gone, she moved to the bed. When she awoke the second time, she
burned the sheets. After that, she chose her clothing. There was a
new array each time, with no repeated outfits. &#160;She
wasn&#8217;t sure where the servants got such a steady supply of
clothing in Siri&#8217;s size, but it made her a little
apprehensive about choosing her daily costume. She knew that
she&#8217;d likely never see any of the options again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;After dressing, she was free to
do as she wished--assuming she didn&#8217;t leave the palace. When
night came, she was bathed, then given a choice of luxurious gowns
to wear into the bed chamber. As a matter of comfort, she had
started requesting more and more ornate gowns, with more fabric to
use in sleeping. She often wondered what the dressmakers would
think if they knew that their gowns were only worn for a few brief
moments before being discarded to the floor, then eventually used
as blankets.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She didn&#8217;t own anything,
yet could have whatever she wanted. Exotic foods, furniture,
entertainers, books, art. . .anything she asked for was provided.
And yet, when she was finished, it was removed. She had everything
and nothing at the same time.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She yawned. The irregular sleep
schedule left her bleary-eyed and tired. The completely empty days
didn&#8217;t help much either. <i>If only there were someone to
talk to.</i>&#160; But servants, priests, and scribes had all
proven uninterested. That accounted for everyone she interacted
with.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Well, except <i>him.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Could she even call that
interacting? The God King appeared to enjoy looking at her body,
but he&#8217;d never given her any indication that he wanted more.
He simply let her kneel, those eyes of his watching her and
dissecting her. That was the sum total of their marriage.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The servants finished putting
out her dinner then lined up by the wall. It was getting
late--almost time for her nightly bathing. <i>I&#8217;ll have to
eat quickly,</i> she thought, sitting at the table. <i>After all, I
wouldn&#8217;t want to be late for the evening&#8217;s
ogling.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A few hours later, Siri stood
bathed, perfumed, and dressed before the massive golden door that
led into the God King&#8217;s bed chamber. She breathed deeply,
calming herself, anxiety bringing her hair to a pale brown. She
still hadn&#8217;t gotten used to this part.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was silly. She knew what
would happen. And yet, the anticipation--the fear--was still there.
God King. His actions proved the power he had over her. One day he
would take her, and it could come at any time. Part of her wished
he&#8217;d just be done with it. The extended dread was even worse
than that first single evening of terror.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shivered. Bluefingers eyed
her. Perhaps eventually he&#8217;d trust her to arrive at the bed
chambers on time. Each night so far, he&#8217;d come to escort her
to the bed chamber.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>At least he hasn&#8217;t
shown up while I&#8217;m bathing again.</i> The warm water and
pleasant scents should have made her relax--unfortunately, she
tended to spend the each bath worrying about either her impending
visit to the God King, or about some male servant walking in on
her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She glanced at Bluefingers.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;A few more minutes,
Vessel,&#8221; he said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>How does he know?</i> she
thought. The man seemed to have a supernatural sense of time. She
hadn&#8217;t seen any form of timepiece in the palace--neither
sundial, metered candle, nor water clock. In Hallandren,
apparently, gods and queens didn&#8217;t worry about such things.
They had servants to remind them of appointments.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers glanced at the
door, then at her. When he saw that she was watching him, he
immediately turned away. As he stood, he started shuffling his
weight from foot to foot.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>What does</i> he<i>have to
be nervous about?</i> she thought with annoyance, turning to stare
at the door&#8217;s intricate gold designs. <i>He&#8217;s not the
one who has to go through this every night.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Do. . .things go well
with the God King, then?&#8221; Bluefingers asked suddenly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri frowned.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I can see that
you&#8217;re tired a lot of the time,&#8221; Bluefingers said.
&#8220;I. . .guess that means you are very. . .active at
night.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s good,
right? Everyone wants an heir as soon as possible.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, of course,&#8221;
Bluefingers said, wringing his hands. &#8220;It&#8217;s just that.
. .&#8221; he trailed off, then glanced at her, meeting her eyes.
&#8220;You just might want to be careful, Vessel. Keep your wits
about you. Try to stay alert.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her hair bleached the rest of
the way white. &#8220;You. . .make it sound as if I&#8217;m in
danger,&#8221; she said softly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What? Danger?&#8221;
Bluefingers said, glancing to the side. &#8220;Nonsense. What would
you have to fear? I was simply suggesting that you remain alert,
should the God King have needs you should fulfill. Ah, see, now
it&#8217;s time. Enjoy your evening, Vessel.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;With that, he pushed open the
door, placed a hand on her back, and guided her into the room. At
the last moment, however, he moved his head up next to hers.
&#8220;You should watch yourself, child,&#8221; he whispered.
&#8220;Not all here in the palace is as it seems.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri frowned, turning, but
Bluefingers plastered on a false smile an pushed the door shut.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>What in Austre&#8217;s name
was that?</i> she thought, pausing for what was probably too long a
time as she stared at the door. Finally, she sighed, turning away.
The usual fire crackled in the hearth, but it was smaller than
normal. That left the room a bit chilly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He was there. Siri didn&#8217;t
need to look to see him. As her eyes grew more accustomed to the
darkness, she could notice that the fire&#8217;s colors--blue,
orange, even black--were far too true, far too <i>vibrant</i>. Her
gown, a brilliant golden satin, seemed to burn with its own inner
color. Anything that was too white--some of the lass on her dress,
for instance--bent slightly, giving off a rainbow of colors as if
seen through the distortion of a prism. Part of her wished for a
well-lit room, where she could experience the full beauty of
BioChroma.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But, of course, that was not
right. The God King&#8217;s Breath was a perversion. He was fed on
the souls of his people, and the colors he created came at their
expense.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Shivering, Siri undid the side
of her dress then let the garment fall to pieces around her--the
long sleeves slipping free, bodice falling forward, skirt and gown
rustling as they dropped to the floor. She completed the ritual,
sliding the straps of her shift off her shoulders, then dropping
the garment to the floor beside the gown. She stepped free of both,
then bowed herself down into her customary posture.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her back complained, and she
ruefully contemplated another uncomfortable night. <i>The least
they could do,</i> she thought, <i>is make certain the fire is
large enough</i>. At night in the large stone palace, it could get
a little chilly despite the Hallandren tropical climate.
Particularly if one were naked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Focus on Bluefingers,</i>
she thought, trying to distract herself from the discomfort.
<i>What did he mean? Things are not what they seem in the
palace?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Was he referring to the God
King and his ability to have her killed?&#160; She was well aware
of the God King&#8217;s power. How could she forget it, with him
sitting not fifteen feet away, watching from the shadows? No, that
wasn&#8217;t it. He&#8217;d felt he&#8217;d needed to give this
warning quietly, without others hearing. <i>Watch yourself. . .
.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It smelt of politics, something
Siri hadn&#8217;t been trained for--though she should have been.
She gritted her teeth. If she&#8217;d paid more attention to the
tutors, would she--perhaps--have been able to pick out a more
subtle meaning to Bluefinger&#8217;s warning?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>As if I needed something
else to be confused about,</i> she thought. If Bluefingers had
something to tell her, why hadn&#8217;t he just said it? As the
minutes passed, she thought about his comments again and again. The
words were like an insomniac, turning over repeatedly, unable to
simply rest in her mind. Yet, at the same time, she felt too
tired--too uncomfortable and cold--to come to any conclusions. That
only left her feeling <i>more</i> annoyed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna would have figured it
out. Vivenna probably would have known instinctively why the God
King hadn&#8217;t chosen to sleep with her. She would have fixed it
the first night.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But Siri was incompetent. She
tried so <i>hard</i> to do as Vivenna would have--to be the best
wife she could, to serve Idris. To be the woman that everyone
expected her to be.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But, she wasn&#8217;t. She
<i>couldn&#8217;t</i> just keep doing this. She felt trapped in the
palace. She couldn&#8217;t get the priests to do more than roll
their eyes at her. She couldn&#8217;t even tempt the God King to
bed her. On top of that, she could very well be in danger, and she
couldn&#8217;t even understand why or how.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;In simpler terms, she was just
plain frustrated.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Groaning at her aching limbs,
Siri sat up in the dark room and looked at the shadowy form in the
corner. &#8220;Will you please just get <i>on</i> with it?&#8221;
she found herself snapping.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Silence.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri felt her hair bleach a
terrible bone white as she realized what she&#8217;d just done. She
stiffened, casting her eyes down, tiredness fleeing in the face of
sudden anxiety.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;What had she been
<i>thinking</i>?&#160; The God King could call servants to execute
her. In fact, he didn&#8217;t even need that. He could bring her
own dress to life, Awakening it, making it leap on her and strangle
her. He could make the rug rise up and attack her. He could
probably bring the ceiling down on her, all without moving from his
chair.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri waited, breathing with
shallow anxiety, anticipating the fury and retribution. But. .
.nothing happened. Minutes passed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Finally, Siri glanced up. The
God King had moved, sitting up straighter, regarding her from his
darkened chair beside the bed. She could see his eyes reflecting
the firelight. She couldn&#8217;t make out much of his face, but he
didn&#8217;t <i>seem</i> angry. He just seemed cold and
distant.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She almost cast her eyes down
again, but hesitated. If snapping at him wouldn&#8217;t provoke a
reaction, then looking at him wasn&#8217;t likely to either. So she
turned her chin up and met his eyes, knowing full well that she was
being foolish. Vivenna would never have provoked the man in such a
way. Vivenna would have remained quiet and demure, either solving
the problem or--if there was no solution--kneeling every night
until her patience impressed even the God King of Hallandren.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But, Siri was not Vivenna. She
was just going to have to accept that fact.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The God King continued to look
at her, and Siri found herself blushing. She&#8217;d knelt before
him naked four nights in a row, but facing him unclothed seemed
more embarrassing. Still, she didn&#8217;t back down. She continued
to kneel, watching him, forcing herself to stay awake.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was difficult. She was
tired, and the position was actually less comfortable than bowing
had been.&#160; She watched anyway, waiting, the hours passing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Eventually--at about the same
time that he left the room every night--the God King stood up. Siri
stiffened, shocked alert. However, he simply walked to the door. He
tapped quietly, and it opened for him, servants apparently waiting
on the other side.&#160; He stepped out and the door closed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri waited tensely.&#160; No
soldiers came to arrest her; no priests came to chastise her.
Eventually, she just walked over to the bed and burrowed into its
covers, savoring the warmth.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>The God King&#8217;s
wrath,</i> she thought drowsily, <i>is decidedly less wrathful than
reported.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;With that, she fell asleep.</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Eleven</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna--first child of
Dedelin, King of Idris--gazed upon the grand city of T&#8217;Telir.
It was the ugliest place she had ever seen.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;People jostled about in the
streets, draped flagrantly in colors, yelling, and talking, and
moving, and stinking, and coughing, and bumping. She pulled her
shawl close, her hair lightened to gray as she continued her
imitation--such that it was--of a woman of advancing years. She had
thought that she might stand out. She needn&#8217;t have been
worried. Who could ever stand out in this mess of people?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She maintained the disguise. It
was best to be safe. She had come--arriving in T&#8217;Telir just
hours ago--to rescue her sister, not get to herself kidnapped.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was a bold plan.&#160;
Vivenna still had trouble believing that she&#8217;d come up with
it. Still, of the many things that her tutors had taught her, one
remained foremost in her mind.&#160; A leader was someone who
acted. Nobody else was going to help Siri, and so it came down to
Vivenna.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She realized that she was
inexperienced. She hoped that awareness would keep her from being
<i>too</i> foolhardy. She also had the best education and political
tutelage that her kingdom could provide, and much of her training
had focused on life in Hallandren. She&#8217;d practiced all of her
life to avoid standing out. She could hide in a massive, unwieldy
city like T&#8217;Telir.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And massive it was.&#160;
She&#8217;d memorized maps of it, but that hadn&#8217;t prepared
her for the sight, sound, scent, and <i>colors</i> of the city on
market day. Even the livestock wore bright ribbons. Vivenna stood
to the side of the road, stooped beside a building draped in
flapping cloth. The fabric had been tied to the awning, covering it
in streamers. In front of her, a herdsman drove a small flock of
sheep toward the market square. They had each been dyed a different
color. <i>Won&#8217;t that ruin the wool?</i> Vivenna thought
sourly. The different colors on the animals clashed so terribly
that she had to look away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Poor Siri,</i> she thought.
<i>Caught up in all of this, locked in the Court of Gods, probably
so overwhelmed that she can barely think.</i> Vivenna had been
prepared to deal with the terrors of Hallandren. Though the colors
sickened her, she had the fortitude to withstand them. How would
little Siri manage?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna pulled her shawl closer
as she stood beside the building in the shadow of a large stone
statue, &#160;&#160;<i>Where is that man?</i> she thought. Parlin
had yet to return from his scouting.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;There was nothing to do but
wait beside the statue, one of the famous D&#8217;Denir Celabrin: a
special group of statues which had been commissioned to commemorate
the end of the Manywar.&#160; Most were of warriors; they stood in
all poses across the entire city, armed with weapons and often
dressed in colorful clothing. According to her lessons, the people
of T&#8217;Telir found dressing the statues to be an amusing
pastime, one that supposedly showed respect.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lore said that the first ones
had been commissioned by Peacegiver the Blessed, the Returned who
had taken command of Hallandren at the end of the Manywar.
&#160;The number of statues had increased each year as new ones
were paid for by the Returned--whose money, of course, came from
the people themselves.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Excess and waste,</i>
Vivenna thought, shaking her head.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Finally, she noticed Parlin
coming back down the street. She frowned as she saw that he was
wearing some ridiculous contraption on his head--it looked a little
like a sock, though much larger. The bright green hat flopped down
one side of his square face, and looked very out of place against
his dull brown Idris traveling clothing.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tall enough to be lanky, Parlin
was only a few years Vivenna&#8217;s senior. She&#8217;d known him
for most of her life; General Yarda&#8217;s son had practically
grown up in the palace. When he hadn&#8217;t been out in the
forests, watching the Hallandren border, or guarding one of the
northern passes.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Parlin?&#8221; she said
as he approached, carefully keeping the annoyance out of her voice
and her hair.&#160; &#8220;What is that on your head?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;A hat,&#8221; he said,
characteristically terse. It wasn&#8217;t that Parlin was rude; it
just seemed to Vivenna that he rarely felt he had much to say.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I can see that
it&#8217;s a hat, Parlin. Where did you get it?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The man in the market
said they&#8217;re very popular,&#8221; Parlin noted.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna sighed. She&#8217;d
hesitated to bring Parlin into the city. He was a good man--as
solid as she&#8217;d ever known--but his life had been one of
living in the wilderness and guarding isolated outposts. The city
was probably overwhelming to him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The hat is
ridiculous, Parlin,&#8221; Vivenna said, hair controlled to keep
the red out of it.&#160; &#8220;It makes you stand out.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Parlin removed the hat, tucking
it in his pocket. He said nothing further, but did turn, watching
the crowds of people pass. They seemed to make him as nervous as
they did Vivenna. Perhaps more so. However, she was glad to have
him. He was one of the few people she trusted not to go to her
father; she knew that Parlin fancied her. Often, during their
youths, he&#8217;d brought her gifts from the forest. Generally,
they&#8217;d been some animal he&#8217;d killed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;In Parlin&#8217;s opinion,
nothing showed affection like a hunk of something dead and bleeding
on the table.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;This place is
strange,&#8221;&#160; Parlin said. &#8220;People move here like
herds.&#8221; His eyes followed a pretty Hallandren girl as she
walked by. The hussy was--like most of the women in
T&#8217;Telir--wearing practically no clothing. Blouses that
revealed well below the neck, skirts well above the knees--some
women even wore pants, just like men.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What did you discover in
the market?&#8221; she asked, drawing his attention back.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There are a lot of
Idrians here,&#8221; he said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;<i>What?</i>&#8221;
Vivenna said, forgetting herself and showing a bit of shock.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Idrians,&#8221; Parlin
said. &#8220;In the market. Some were trading goods; many looked
like common workers. I watched them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna frowned, tapping her
foot. She trusted He was as trustworthy a man as his father, and
while he wasn&#8217;t himself a soldier, he was an accomplished
woodsman. Plus, he was rather devoted to her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And the
restaurant?&#8221; Vivenna asked. &#8220;Did you scout it as I
asked?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He nodded. &#8220;Looks clean.
Feels strange to me that people eat food made by strangers.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Did you see anyone
suspicious there?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Parlin shook his head.&#160;
&#8220;What would be &#8216;suspicious&#8217; in this
city?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t know.
You&#8217;re the one who insisted on scouting ahead.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s always a good
idea when hunting. Less likely to scare away the
animals.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Unfortunately,
Parlin,&#8221; Vivenna said, &#8220;people aren&#8217;t like
animals.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I am aware of
that,&#8221; Parlin said. &#8220;Animals make more
sense.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna sighed.&#160; However,
she did notice that Parlin had been right on at least one count.
She caught sight of a group of Idrians walking down the street, one
pulling a cart that had probably once held farm goods. It surprised
her that they would come so far to trade. But, then, commerce
hadn&#8217;t been particularly robust in Idris lately.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Reluctantly, she closed her
eyes and--using the shawl to hide the transformation--changed her
hair from gray to brown. Then, she moved the shawl to her
shoulders. Now that she knew there were Idrians in town, it was
unlikely that she would stand out. Trying to act like an old woman
would be more suspicious.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It still felt wrong to be
exposed. In Bevalis, she would have been recognized instantly.
However, Bevalis had only a few thousand people in it--and it was
extremely large by Idris standards. It wasn&#8217;t that the
kingdom itself lacked people, they were just spread out.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>No ports,</i> she thought,
nodding to Parlin and--gritting her teeth--joining the crowd and
making her way toward the marketplace.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The inland sea made all the
difference. T&#8217;Telir was a prime port, and the dyes it
sold--made from the Tears of Edgli, a local flower--made it a
popular place of trade. She could see the evidence all around her.
Exotic silks and clothing. Fresh foodstuffs from cities along the
coast. In Idris, the population had to be spread out to support
farms and herds. In Hallandren--a country which controlled a good
third of the coast of the inland sea--things could be different.
They could burgeon. Grow.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Get flamboyant.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;In the distance, she could see
the plateau that marked the Court of Gods, most profane place
beneath Austre&#8217;s colorful eyes. Inside its walls, within the
God King&#8217;s terrible palace, Siri was being held captive. She
would be the prisoner of Susebron himself.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna understood, logically,
why her father had done what he had. In terms of raw politics,
Vivenna was more valuable to Idris. If there was going to be war
for certain, then it made sense to send the less useful daughter as
a stalling tactic.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was hard for Vivenna to
think of Siri as &#8220;Less Useful,&#8221; however. True, the girl
was frustrating--but she was Vivenna&#8217;s baby sister. She was
gregarious, but she&#8217;d also been the one who smiled when
others were down. She was the one who brought gifts when nobody was
expecting. She was infuriating, but innocent.&#160; And someone had
to look out for her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The God King would demand an
heir. That was to have been Vivenna&#8217;s duty--her sacrifice for
her people. She had been prepared and willing. It felt <i>wrong</i>
for Siri to have to do something so terrible.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her father had made his
decision; the best one for Idris. Vivenna had made her own. If
there was going to be war, then Vivenna wanted to be ready to get
her sister out of the city the moment it got dangerous. In fact,
Vivenna felt that there <i>had</i> to be a way to rescue Siri
before the war came--a way of fooling the Hallandrens, making them
think that Siri had died. Something that would save Vivenna&#8217;s
sister, yet not provoke the war any further.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;This wasn&#8217;t the sort of
thing her father could condone. So she hadn&#8217;t told him.
Better for him to be able to deny involvement if things went
wrong.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna moved down the street,
eyes downcast, careful to not draw attention to herself. Getting
away from Idris had been surprisingly easy. Who would suspect such
a brash move from Vivenna--she who had lived her life perfect?
Nobody questioned when she&#8217;d asked for food and supplies,
explaining that she wanted to make emergency kits. Nobody
questioned when she&#8217;d proposed an expedition to the higher
reaches to gather important roots, an excuse to hide the first few
weeks of her disappearance.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Parlin had been easy enough to
persuade. He trusted her, perhaps too much, and he had intimate
knowledge of the paths and trails leading down to Hallandren.
He&#8217;d been as far as the city walls on one scouting trip a
year back. With him on her side, she&#8217;d been able to gather a
few of his friends--also woodsmen--to protect her and be part of
her &#8216;expedition&#8217;. Instead, they&#8217;d all made the
trek down from the highlands into Hallandren.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She&#8217;d sent the rest of
them back earlier in the morning. &#160;They would be of little use
in the city, where she had already arranged for other allies to be
her protection. Parlin&#8217;s friends would carry word to her
father, who would already have word of what she&#8217;d done.
Before leaving, she&#8217;d arranged for her maid to deliver a
letter to him about the time when her disappearance would begin to
grow suspicious.&#160; Counting off the days, she realized that her
letter would be delivered this very evening.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She didn&#8217;t know what her
father&#8217;s reaction would be. Perhaps he would send soldiers to
retrieve her--if he did, they would have to be covert. Any
large-scale rescue force would be seen as a sign of war. Perhaps
he&#8217;d leave her be. In an attempt to ensure this result,
she&#8217;d warned him that if she wasn&#8217;t given time to
assess whether or not Siri could be rescued, she would simply go to
the Court of Gods, explaining that there had been a mistake, and
trade herself for her sister. &#160;She&#8217;d warned that if she
saw any hint of Idris soldiers searching for her in the city,
she&#8217;d take that step immediately.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She sincerely hoped she
didn&#8217;t have to. The God King was not to be trusted; he might
take Vivenna captive and keep Siri, thereby providing him with two
princesses to provide pleasure instead of one. . .</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Don&#8217;t think about
that,</i> Vivenna told herself, pulling her shawl closer.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Better to find another
way.&#160; Fake Siri&#8217;s death, or make it look like
she&#8217;d been kidnapped by someone else. Even if she got Siri
out but was afraid of the political complications, Vivenna could
always offer herself up as a replacement.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Part of Vivenna acknowledged
that there was a chance she wouldn&#8217;t be able to manage any of
that, and would return home to Idris on her own after a few months
of trying. She&#8217;d had to come though. She <i>had</i> to do
something, to at least try.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The first step toward any sort
of plan was to find Lemks, her father&#8217;s head spy in
Hallandren.&#160; Vivenna had corresponded with him on several
occasions. Her father had wanted her to be familiar with the chief
Idris intelligence agent in T&#8217;Telir, should she need him
during her life in the city. Her father&#8217;s foresight would
work against him. Lemks knew Vivenna, and had been told to take
orders from her.&#160; The spy wouldn&#8217;t question her--indeed,
he hadn&#8217;t questioned when Vivenna had sent him a letter to
request a meeting. Her messenger had left Idris just before she
herself, but had been able to travel much faster. Lemks&#8217;s
reply to her had come when she was still a few days out of
T&#8217;Telir.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A meeting arranged. In a
restaurant at the market. It sounded logical. Her plan seemed good.
She was prepared. Why, then, did she feel so utterly daunted when
she entered the market?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She stood quietly, a rock in
the flow of human traffic down the street. Nothing had adequately
prepared her for the sight of such an enormous swath of land,
covered in tents, pens, buildings, and people. There didn&#8217;t
appear to be much reason or direction to the organization. There
were no cobblestones here, only sand and dirt with the occasional
patch of grass. The streets appeared to have simply been made where
people felt like going.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Merchants yelled out what they
sold, banners waved in the wind, and entertainers vied for
attention. It was an orgy of color and motion.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Wow,&#8221; Parlin said
quietly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna turned, shaking off her
stupor. &#8220;Didn&#8217;t you just come here?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yeah,&#8221; Parlin
said, eyes a little glazed over. &#8220;Wow again.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna shook her head.
&#8220;Let&#8217;s go to the restaurant.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Parlin nodded. &#8220;This
way.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna followed him, annoyed
at herself. This was Hallandren--she shouldn&#8217;t be awed by it.
She should be disgusted. Yet she felt almost too overwhelmed to be
disgusted. It was hard to feel anything beyond a slight sense of
sickness. She&#8217;d never realized how much she took for granted
Idris&#8217; beautiful simplicity.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Parlin did a good job of
leading her through the throng--his height made him easy to keep
track of, and his familiar presence was welcome as the overload of
scents, sounds, and sights tried to drown her. In some places the
crowds grew so thick that they practically had to shove their way
through. On occasion, Vivenna found herself on the edge of panic,
pressed in by dirty, repulsively colored bodies.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blessedly, the restaurant
wasn&#8217;t too far in. It had a picture of a boat sailing merrily
on its board, and if the scents coming from inside were any
indication, then the ship represented the restaurant&#8217;s
cuisine: &#160;Fish. She barely kept herself from gagging.
She&#8217;d eaten fish several times in preparation for her life in
Hallandren. She&#8217;d never grown to like it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Parlin walked, immediately
stepping to the side and crouching, almost like a wolf, as he let
his eyes adjust to the dimness. Vivenna gave the restaurant keeper
the fake name Lemks had indicated in his letter. The restaurant
keeper eyed Parlin, then shrugged and led the two of them to one of
the tables on the far side of the room. Vivenna sat down at the
table, a little uncertain what one did at a restaurant despite her
training. It said something meaningful to her that places like
restaurants could exist in Hallandren--places meant to feed not
travelers, but the local population who couldn&#8217;t be bothered
to dine at their own homes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Parlin didn&#8217;t sit, but
remained standing beside her seat, watching the room. He looked as
tense as she felt. &#8220;Vivenna,&#8221; he said softly, leaning
down. &#8220;Your hair.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She started, realizing that her
hair had lightened slightly from the trauma of pushing her way
through the crowd. It hadn&#8217;t bleached completely white --she
was far too well trained for that. It had grown somewhat whiter,
like it had been powdered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Feeling a jolt of paranoia,
Vivenna replaced the shawl on her head, looking away as the
restaurant owner approached to take their order. A short list of
meals was scratched into the table, and Parlin finally sat down,
drawing the restaurant owner&#8217;s attention.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You&#8217;re better than
this,</i> she told herself sternly. <i>You&#8217;ve studied
Hallandren for most of your life. You can deal with this.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her hair darkened again,
returning to its brown. The change was subtle enough that if
someone had been watching, they would have probably thought it to
be a trick of the light. She kept the shawl up, feeling ashamed.
One walk through the market, and she lost control? What was wrong
with her?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Think of Siri,</i> she told
herself. That gave her strength. Her mission was impromptu, even
reckless, but it was important. Calm once again, she put the shawl
back down and waited while Parlin chose a dish--a seafood stew--and
the innkeeper walked away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Now what?&#8221; Parlin
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We wait,&#8221; Vivenna
said. &#8220;Lemks said he&#8217;d check the restaurant each day at
noon. It is approaching noon. We will sit here until he
arrives.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Parlin nodded, fidgeting
slightly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What is it?&#8221;
Vivenna asked calmly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He glanced toward the door.
&#8220;I don&#8217;t trust this place, Vivenna. I can&#8217;t smell
anything but bodies and spices, can&#8217;t hear anything but the
chatter of people. There&#8217;s no wind, no rivers, just. .
.<i>people</i>.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I know,&#8221; she
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I want to go back
out,&#8221; he said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221; she
said.&#160; &#8220;Why?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;If you aren&#8217;t
familiar with a place,&#8221; he said awkwardly, &#8220;you need to
make yourself familiar.&#8221; He gave no other explanation.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna felt a stab of fear at
the thought of being left alone. However, it wasn&#8217;t proper to
demand Parlin stay and attend her. &#8220;Do you promise to stay
close?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He nodded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then go.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He did, walking from the room.
He didn&#8217;t move like one of the Hallandrens--his motions were
too fluid, to much like a prowling beast. <i>Perhaps I should have
left him</i>, she thought. <i>Sent him back with the
others.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But the thought of being
completely alone had been too much. She needed <i>someone</i> to
help her find Lemks. As it was, she felt that she was probably
taking too great a risk at entering the city with only one guard,
even a soldier as skilled as Peprin.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But it was done. No use
worrying now. She sat, arms folded on the table, thinking. Back in
Idris, her plan to save Siri had seemed more simple. Now the full
nature of it lay before her. Somehow, she had to get into the Court
of Gods and sneak her sister out.&#160; How would one accomplish
something like that? Surely the Court of Gods was well guarded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Lemks will have ideas,</i>
she told herself. <i>We don&#8217;t have to do anything yet.
I&#8217;m--</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A man sat down at her table.
Less colorfully dressed than most Hallandrens, he wore an outfit
made mostly of brown leather, though he did have a token red vest
thrown over the top.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;This was not Lemks.&#160; The
spy was an older man in his fifties. The one sitting with her had a
long face and styled hair, and couldn&#8217;t have been older than
thirty-five.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I hate being a
mercenary,&#8221; the man said. &#8220;You know why?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna sat, shocked, mouth
opened slightly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The prejudice,&#8221;
the man said. &#8220;Everyone else, they do a job, they ask for
recompense, and they are respected for it. Not mercenaries. We get
a bad name just for doing our job.&#160; How many minstrels get
spat on for accepting payment from the highest bidder? How many
bakers feel guilty for selling pastries to one man, then selling
those same pastries to the man&#8217;s enemies?&#8221; He eyed her.
&#8220;No. Only the mercenary.&#160; Unfair, wouldn&#8217;t you
say?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;W. . .who are
you?&#8221; Vivenna finally managed to ask. She jumped as another
man sat down on her other side. Large of girth, this man had a
cudgel strapped to his back. A colorful bird was sitting on the end
of it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m Denth,&#8221;
the first man said, taking her hand and shaking it.
&#8220;That&#8217;s Tonk Fah.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Pleased,&#8221; Tonk Fah
said, taking her hand once Denth was through with it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Unfortunately,
princess,&#8221; Denth said, &#8220;we&#8217;re here to kill
you.&#8221;</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Twelve</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna&#8217;s hair bleached a
cool, stark white.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Think!</i> she told herself.
<i>You&#8217;ve been trained in politics! You studied hostage
negotiation.&#160; But. . .what do you do when you</i> are <i>the
hostage?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Suddenly, the two men burst out
laughing. The larger man thumped the table several times with his
hand, causing his bird to squawk.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Sorry, princess,&#8221;
Denth--the thinner man--said, shaking his head. &#8220;Just a bit
of mercenary humor.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We don&#8217;t
kill,&#8221; Tonk Fah said. &#8220;That&#8217;s assassin
work.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Assassins,&#8221; Denth
said, holding up a finger. &#8220;Now, <i>they</i> get respect. Why
do you suppose that is? They&#8217;re really just mercenaries with
fancier names. Institutional bias, I tell you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna blinked, struggling to
keep control of her nerves. &#8220;You&#8217;re not here to kill
me,&#8221; she said, voice stiff. &#8220;So you&#8217;re just going
to kidnap me?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Gods, no,&#8221; Denth
said. &#8220;Bad business, that. How do you make money at it? Every
time you kidnap someone worth the ransom, you upset people a whole
lot more powerful than you are.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Don&#8217;t make
important people angry,&#8221; Tonk Fah said, yawning.
&#8220;Unless you&#8217;re getting paid by people who are even
<i>more</i> powerful.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth nodded. &#8220;And that
isn&#8217;t even considering the feeding and care of captives, the
exchanging of ransom notes, and the arranging of drop-offs.
It&#8217;s a headache, I tell you. Terrible way to make
money.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The table fell silent.&#160;
Vivenna placed her hands flat on its top to keep them from
quivering. <i>They know who I am,</i> she thought, forcing herself
to think logically. <i>Either they recognize me, or. . . .</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You work for
Lemks,&#8221; she said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth smiled widely.&#160;
&#8220;See Tonk? He said she was a clever one.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Guess that&#8217;s why
she&#8217;s a princess and we&#8217;re just mercenaries,&#8221;
Tonk Fah said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna frowned. <i>Are they
mocking me or not?</i> &#8220;Where is Lemks? Why didn&#8217;t he
come himself?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth smiled again, nodding
toward the restaurant owner as the man brought a large pot of
steaming stew to the table. It smelt of hot spices, and had what
appeared to be crab claws floating in it. The owner dropped a group
of wooden spoons to the table, then retreated.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth and Tonk Fah didn&#8217;t
wait for permission to eat her meal. &#8220;Your friend,&#8221;
Denth said, grabbing a spoon, &#8220;Lemks--our
employer--isn&#8217;t doing so well.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Fevers,&#8221; Tonk Fah
said between slurps.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He requested that we
bring you to him,&#8221; Denth said. He handed her a folded piece
of paper with one hand, cracking a claw between three fingers of
the other. Vivenna cringed as he slurped the insides out.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Princess,</i> the paper
read. <i>Please trust these men. Denth has served me well for some
measure now, and he is loyal--if any mercenary can be called loyal.
He and his men have been paid, and I am confident he will stay true
to us for the duration of his contract. I offer proof of
authenticity by virtue of this password: Bluemask.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The writing was in Lemks&#8217;
hand. More than that, he had given the proper password. Not
&#8216;bluemask&#8217;--that was misdirection. The true password
was using the word &#8216;measure&#8217; instead of time. She
glanced at Denth, who slurped out the insides of another claw.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ah, now,&#8221; he said,
tossing aside the shell. &#8220;This is the tricky part; she has to
make a decision. Are we telling her the truth, or are we fooling
her? Have we fabricated that letter?&#160; Or, maybe we took the
old spy captive and tortured him, forcing him to write the
words.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We could bring you his
fingers as proof of our good faith,&#8221; Tonk Fah said.
&#8220;Would that help?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna raised an eyebrow.
&#8220;Mercenary humor?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Such that it is,&#8221;
Denth said with a sigh. &#8220;We&#8217;re not generally a clever
lot. Otherwise, we&#8217;d probably have selected a profession
without such a high mortality rate.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Like the profession of
princess,&#8221; Tonks said. &#8220;Good life-span, those.
I&#8217;ve often wondered if I should apprentice myself to
one.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna frowned as the two men
chuckled. <i>Lemks wouldn&#8217;t have broken under torture,</i>
she thought. <i>He&#8217;s too well trained. Even if he had broken,
he wouldn&#8217;t have included both the real password and the
false one.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Let&#8217;s go,&#8221;
she said, standing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Wait,&#8221; Tonk Fah
said, spoon to lips, &#8220;we&#8217;re skipping our
meal?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna eyed the red-colored
soup and its bobbing crustacean limbs.
&#8220;Definitely.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri stood in the dark black
bedroom, wearing her shift, looking out the window. The God
King&#8217;s palace was the only structure in the Court of Gods
higher than the surrounding wall, and the bedroom faced east. Out
over the sea.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She watched the distant waves,
feeling the heat of the afternoon sun. It didn&#8217;t bother her.
While wearing the shift, the warmth was actually pleasant, and it
was tempered by a cool breeze blowing in off the ocean. The wind
teased her long hair, ruffling the fabric of her shift.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She should be dead. She had
spoken directly to the God King, had sat up and made a demand of
him.&#160; She&#8217;d waited all morning for some kind of
punishment. There had been none.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She leaned down against the
windowsill, arms crossed on the stone, closing her eyes and feeling
the sea breeze. A part of her was still aghast at the way she had
acted. That part was growing smaller and smaller. <i>I&#8217;ve
been going about things wrong here,</i> she thought. <i>I&#8217;ve
let myself be pushed about by my fears and worries.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That wasn&#8217;t her. She
didn&#8217;t usually take time to bother with fears and worries.
She just did what seemed right. She was beginning to feel that she
should have stood up to the God King days ago. Perhaps she
wasn&#8217;t being cautious enough. Perhaps punishment would still
come. However, for the moment, she felt as if she&#8217;d
accomplished something.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She smiled, opening her eyes,
and let her hair change to a determined golden yellow.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was time to stop being
afraid.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lemks coughed quietly.&#160;
His face was streaked with sweat, his skin clammy and pale, and he
occasionally gave a whispered mumble of delirious ramblings.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna sat on a stool beside
his bed, hands in her lap. The two mercenaries stood with Parlin at
the back of the room. The only other person present was a solemn
nurse--the same woman who had informed Vivenna in a quiet voice
that nothing more could be done.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lemks was dying. It was
unlikely that he would last the day.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;This was the first Vivenna had
seen Lemk&#8217;s face, though she&#8217;d often corresponded with
him. The face looked. . .wrong. She knew that Lemks was growing
old; that made him a better spy, for fewer people looked for spies
in the elderly. Yet he wasn&#8217;t supposed to be this frail stick
of a person, shaking and coughing. He was supposed to be a spry,
quick-tongued old gentleman. That was what she had imagined.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She felt like she was losing
one of her dearest friends, though she had never really known him.
With him went her refuge in Hallandren, her secret advantage. He
was the one who was supposed to have made this insane plan of hers
work. The skilled, crafty mentor that she had counted on having at
her side.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He coughed again. The nurse
glanced at Vivenna. &#8220;He goes in an out of lucidity, my lady.
Just this morning, he spoke of you, but now he&#8217;s getting
worse and worse. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Thank you,&#8221;
Vivenna said quietly. &#8220;You are excused.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The woman bowed and left.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Now it is time to be
princess,</i> Vivenna thought, rising and leaning over Lemks&#8217;
bed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Lemks,&#8221; she said.
&#8220;I need your help; you need to pass on your knowledge. How do
I contact your spy networks? Where are the other Idris agents in
the city? What are the passcodes that will get them to listen to
me?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He coughed, staring unseeingly,
whispering something. She leaned closer.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;. . .never say
it,&#8221; he said. &#8220;You can torture me all that you want. I
won&#8217;t give in.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna sat back. By design,
the Idris spy network in Hallandren had loose organization. Her
father knew all of their agents, but Vivenna had only ever
interacted with Lemks, the leader and coordinator of the network.
She gritted her teeth, leaning forward again. She felt like a grave
robber as she shook Lemks&#8217; head slightly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Lemks, look at me.&#160;
I&#8217;m not here to torture you. I&#8217;m the princess. You
wrote me a letter earlier. Now I&#8217;ve come to you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Can&#8217;t fool
me,&#8221; the old man whispered. &#8220;Your torture is nothing. I
won&#8217;t give it up. Not to you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna sighed, looking
away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Suddenly, Lemks shuddered, and
a wave of color washed across the bed, over Vivenna, and pulsed
along the floor before fading. Despite herself, Vivenna stepped
back in shock.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Another pulse came. It
wasn&#8217;t color itself. It was a wave of <i>enhanced</i>
color--a ripple that made the hues in the room stand out more as it
passed. The floor, the sheets, her own dress--it all flared to
vibrant brightness for a second, then faded back to the original
colors.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What in Austre&#8217;s
name was <i>that</i>?&#8221; Vivenna asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;BioChromatic Breath,
princess,&#8221; Denth said as he stood, leaning against the door
out. &#8220;Old Lemks has a lot of it. Couple hundred Breaths,
I&#8217;d guess.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s
impossible,&#8221; Vivenna said. &#8220;He&#8217;s Idrian.
He&#8217;d never accept Breath.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth shot a look at Tonk Fah,
who was scratching his parrot&#8217;s neck. The bulky soldier just
shrugged.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Another wave of color came from
Lemks.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He&#8217;s dying,
princess,&#8221; Denth said. &#160;&#8220;His Breath is going
irregular.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna glanced at Denth.
&#8220;He doesn&#8217;t have--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Something grabbed her arm. She
jumped, looking down at Lemks, who had managed to reach up and take
hold of her. He was focused on her face. &#8220;Princess
Vivenna,&#8221; he said, eyes showing a bit of lucidity.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Lemks,&#8221; she
said.&#160; &#8220;Your contacts. You have to give them to
me!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;ve done
something bad, princess.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She froze.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Breath, princess,&#8221;
he said. &#8220;I inherited it from my predecessor, and I&#8217;ve
bought more. A lot more. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>God of Colors. . . .</i>
Vivenna thought with a sick feeling in her stomach.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I know it was
wrong,&#8221; Lemks whispered. &#8220;But. . .I felt so powerful. I
could make the very dust of the earth obey my command. It was for
the good of Idris! Men with Breath are respected here in
Hallandren. I could get into parties where I normally would have
been forbidden. I could go to the Court of Gods when I wished. The
Breath extended my life, made me spry despite my age. I. . .
.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He blinked, eyes
unfocusing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, Austre,&#8221; he
whispered. &#8220;I&#8217;ve damned myself. I&#8217;ve gained
notoriety through abusing the souls of others. And now I&#8217;m
dying. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Lemks!&#8221; Vivenna
said.&#160; &#8220;Don&#8217;t think about that now. Names! I need
names and passcodes. Don&#8217;t leave me alone!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Damned,&#8221; he
whispered. &#8220;Someone take it. Please take it away from
me!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna tried to pull back, but
he still had a hold on her arm. She shuddered, thinking about the
Breath he held.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You know,
princess,&#8221; Denth said from behind. &#8220;Nobody really tells
mercenaries anything. It&#8217;s an unfortunate--but very
realistic--drawback of our profession. Never trusted.&#160; Never
looked to for advice.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She glanced back at him.&#160;
He leaned against the door, Tonk Fah a short distance away. Parlin
stood there as well, holding that ridiculous green hat in his
fingers.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Now, if someone
<i>were</i> to ask my opinion,&#8221; Denth continued,
&#8220;I&#8217;d point out how much those Breaths are worth. Sell
them, and you&#8217;d have enough money to buy your <i>own</i> spy
network--or pretty much anything else you wanted.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna looked back at the
dying man. He was mumbling to himself.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;If he dies,&#8221; Denth
said, &#8220;that Breath dies with him. All of it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;A shame,&#8221; Tonk Fah
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Truly,&#8221; Denth
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna paled. &#8220;I will
not traffic in the souls of men! I don&#8217;t care how much
they&#8217;re worth.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Suit yourself,&#8221;
Denth said. &#160;&#8220;Hope nobody suffers when your mission
fails, though.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Siri. . . .</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; Vivenna said,
partially to herself. &#8220;I couldn&#8217;t take them.&#8221; It
was true. Even the thought of letting someone else&#8217;s Breath
mingle with her own--the idea of drawing another person&#8217;s
soul into her own body--made her sick.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna turned back to the
dying spy. His BioChroma was burning bright now, and his sheets
practically glowed. It was better to let that Breath die with
him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Yet, without Lemks, she would
have no help in the city. No one to guide her. She&#8217;d barely
brought enough money to see to lodging and meals, let alone bribes
or supplies. It was like the goods one found in a bandit&#8217;s
cavern. Did you throw it away just because it had originally been
earned through crime? Her training and lessons whispered that she
needed resources badly, and that the damage had already been done.
. . .</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>No!</i> she thought again.
<i>It just isn&#8217;t right! I can&#8217;t hold it. I
couldn&#8217;t.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Of course, perhaps it would be
wise to let someone <i>else</i> hold the Breaths for a time. Then
she could think about what to do with them at her leisure. Maybe. .
.maybe even find the people they had been taken from in the first
place. She turned back, glancing at Denth and Tonk Fah.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Don&#8217;t look at me
like that, princess,&#8221; Denth said, chuckling. &#8220;I see the
glint in your eyes. I&#8217;m not going to keep that Breath for
you. Having that much BioChroma makes a man far too
important.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tonk Fah nodded.
&#8220;It&#8217;d be like hiking about the city with a bag of gold
on your back.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I like my Breath the way
it is,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;I only need one, and it&#8217;s
functioning just fine.&#160; Keeps me alive, doesn&#8217;t draw
attention to me, and sits there waiting to be sold if I need
it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna glanced at
Parlin.&#160; But. . .no, she couldn&#8217;t force the Breath on
him. She turned back to Denth.&#160; &#8220;What kind of things
does your agreement with Lemks provide for?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth glanced at Tonk Fah, then
glanced back at her. The look in his eyes was enough. He was paid
to obey. He&#8217;d take the Breath if she commanded it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Come here,&#8221; she
said, nodding to a stool beside her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth approached reluctantly.
&#8220;You know, princess,&#8221; he said, sitting. &#8220;If you
give me that Breath, then I could just run off with it. I&#8217;d
be a wealthy man. You wouldn&#8217;t want to put that kind of
temptation into the hands of an unscrupulous mercenary now, would
you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She hesitated.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>If he runs off with it, then
what do I loose?</i> That would solve a lot of problems for
her.&#160; &#8220;Take it,&#8221; she ordered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shook his head.
&#8220;That&#8217;s not the way it works. Our friend there has to
give it to me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She looked at the old man.
&#8220;I. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>He has to give it to
me.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She began to command Lemks to
do just that, but she had second thoughts. Austre wouldn&#8217;t
want her to take the Breath, no matter what the circumstances--a
man who took Breath from others was worse than a slaver.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; she said.
&#8220;No, I&#8217;ve changed my mind. We won&#8217;t take the
Breath.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;At that moment, Lemks stopped
his mumbling. He looked up, meeting Vivenna&#8217;s eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;His hand was still on her
arm.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My life to yours,&#8221;
he said in an eerily clear voice, grip tight on her arm as she
jumped back. &#8220;<i>My Breath become yours</i>!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A vibrant cloud of shifting,
oil-on-water air burst from his mouth, puffing toward her. Vivenna
closed her mouth, eyes wide, hair white. She ripped her arm free
from Lemks&#8217; grip, his face dull, his eyes losing of their
luster, colors fading around him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The Breath shot toward her. She
kept her mouth closed, but that did nothing. The Breath had been
Commanded, and it found its new host. Within a second of being
released, it struck, hitting her like a physical force, washing
across her body.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She gasped, falling to her
knees, body quivering with a perverse pleasure. She could suddenly
<i>feel</i> the other people in the room. She could sense them
watching her. And--like a light turning on--everything around her
become more vibrant, more real, and more alive.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She gasped, shaking in
awe.&#160; She vaguely heard Parlin rushing to her side, speaking
her name. But, oddly, the only thing she could think of was the
melodic quality of his voice. She could pick out each tone in every
word he spoke. &#160;She knew them instinctively.&#160; She could
name them all.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Austre, God of Colors!</i>
she thought, steadying herself with one hand against the wooden
floor as the shakes subsided. <i>What have I done?</i></p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Thirteen</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri sat nervously, blonde with
excitement, trying to contain herself as the serving women did her
hair. Her Marriage Jubilation--something she found rather
inappropriately named--was finally over, and it was time for her
formal presentation before the Hallandren gods.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She was probably too excited.
It hadn&#8217;t really been that long. Yet the prospect of
leaving--if only to attend court--made her almost giddy. She would
finally get to interact with someone other than priests, scribes,
and servants. &#160;She&#8217;d finally get to meet some of the
Gods that she&#8217;d always heard about.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Plus, He&#8217;d be there as
the presentation. The only times she&#8217;d been able to see the
God King had been during their nightly staring matches, when he was
shrouded in shadow. Today, she would see him in the
light.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She smiled, inspecting herself
in a large mirror. The servants had done her hair in an amazingly
intricate style, with part of it braided, the rest still allowed to
flow free. They&#8217;d tied several ribbons into the braids and
woven them into her free-flowing hair. The ribbons shimmered as she
turned her head, inspecting herself in the mirror. Her family would
have been mortified at the ostentatious colors. Siri smiled
mischievously, making her hair turn a brighter shade of golden
blonde to contrast the ribbons.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The serving women smiled
approvingly, a couple letting out quiet &#8216;ooo&#8217;s at the
transformation.&#160; Siri sat back, hands in lap as she inspected
her clothing choices for the court appearance. The garments were
ornate--not as complex as the ones she wore to the bedchambers, but
far more formal than her everyday choices.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Red was the theme for the
serving women and priests today. That made Siri want to choose
something else. Eventually, she decided on gold, and she pointed at
the two golden gowns, having the women bring them forward so she
could look at them more closely. Unfortunately, as she did so, the
women fetched three more golden dresses from a rolling wardrobe out
in the hallway.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri sighed. It was as if they
were determined to keep her from having a reasonably simple
choice.&#160; She just hated seeing so many options disappear each
day. If only. . . .</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She paused. &#8220;Could I try
them <i>all</i> on?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The serving women glanced at
each other, a little confused. They nodded toward her, their
expressions conveying a simple message. <i>Of course you can.</i>
Siri felt foolish, but in Idris, she&#8217;d never had a choice
before. She&#8217;d simply worn what she was given.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She was a queen now.&#160; She
smiled, standing and letting them take off her robe then dress her
in the first of the gowns, careful not to mess up her hair. Siri
inspected herself, noting that the neckline was rather low. She was
willing to splurge on color, but the amount of flesh Hallandrens
showed still felt scandalous to her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She nodded, letting them take
off the gown. Then, they dressed her in the next one--a two-piece
garment with a separate corset. Once they were finished, Siri eyed
this new outfit in the mirror. She liked it, but she wanted to try
the others as well.&#160; So, after spinning about and inspecting
the back, she nodded and moved on.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was frivolous. But why was
she so worried about being frivolous? Her father wasn&#8217;t
around to regard her with that stern, disapproving face of his.
Vivenna was an entire kingdom away. None of the people in the room
would be corrupted by her bad example.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri was queen of the
Hallandren people. Shouldn&#8217;t she try to learn their ways? She
smiled at the ridiculous justification, but went on to the next
gown anyway.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;ll give it
away,&#8221; Vivenna said firmly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She sat with the mercenaries in
Lemks&#8217;s home. They had moved from the bed chamber--where the
corpse still lay--down to the sitting room. Like most in
Hallandren, the place was swollen with colors; the walls were made
from thin strips of reed-like wood, stained with bright yellows and
greens. Vivenna couldn&#8217;t help but notice that she saw each
color more vibrantly now. She had a strange sense for color--she
could divide its shades and hues, understanding instinctively how
close each color was to the ideal. It was like perfect pitch for
the eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was very, <i>very</i>
difficult not to see beauty in the colors.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth leaned against the far
wall. Tonk Fah lounged on a couch, yawning periodically, his
colorful bird perched on his foot. Parlin had gone to stand watch
outside.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Give it away,
Princess?&#8221; Denth asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The Breath,&#8221;
Vivenna said. She sat on a kitchen stool instead of one of the
overly-plush chairs or couches. &#8220;We will go out and find
unfortunate people who have been raped by your culture, their
Breath stolen, and I will give each one a Breath.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth shot a glace at Tonk Fah,
who simply yawned.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Princess,&#8221; Denth
said, &#8220;you can&#8217;t give Breath away one at a time. You
have to give it all away at once.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Including your own
Breath,&#8221; Tonk Fah said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth nodded. &#8220;That would
leave you as a Drab.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna&#8217;s stomach churned
at that. The thought of not only losing the new beauty and color,
but her own Breath, her soul. . .well, it was almost enough to turn
her hair white.&#160; &#8220;No,&#8221; she said.
&#8220;That&#8217;s not an option, then.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The room fell silent.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;She could Awaken
stuff,&#8221; Tonk Fah noted, wiggling his foot, making his bird
squawk. &#8220;Stick the Breath inside of a pair of pants or
something.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s a good
point,&#8221; Denth said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What. . .does that
entail?&#8221; Vivenna asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You bring something to
life, princess,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;An inanimate object.
That&#8217;ll draw out some of your Breath and leave the object
kind of alive. Most Awakeners do it temporarily, but I don&#8217;t
see why you couldn&#8217;t just leave the Breath there.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Awakening. Taking the souls of
men and using them to create unliving monstrosities. Somehow,
Vivenna felt that Austre would find that an even greater sin than
simply bearing the Breath. She sighed, shaking her head. The
problem with the Breath was, in a way, just a distraction--one she
feared she was using to keep herself from dwelling on the corpse
upstairs.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She could no longer count on
Lemks to guide her. What was she going to do?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth sat down in a chair
beside her, resting his feet up on the sitting table. He kept
himself better groomed than Tonk Fah, his dark hair pulled back
into a neat tail, his face clean-shaven. &#8220;I hate being a
mercenary,&#8221; he said. &#8220;You know why?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She raised an eyebrow.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No job security,&#8221;
Denth said, leaning back in his chair. &#8220;The kinds of things
we do, they tend to be dangerous and unpredictable. Our employers
have a habit of dying off on us.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Though usually not from
the chills,&#8221; Tonk Fah noted. &#8220;Swords tend to be the
method of choice.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Take our current
predicament,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;No more employer. That
leaves us without any real direction.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna froze. <i>No direction.
Does that mean their contract is over? They know I&#8217;m a
princess of Idris. What will they do with that information?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth eyed her. &#8220;You see
that?&#8221; he asked, turning to Tonk Fah.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yeah,&#8221; Tonk Fah
said.&#160; &#8220;She&#8217;s thinking it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth leaned back further in
his chair. &#8220;See, this is <i>exactly</i> what I&#8217;m
talking about.&#160; Why does everyone assume that when a
mercenary&#8217;s contract is over, he&#8217;ll immediately betray
them? I mean, do you think a surgeon has this problem? Do people
worry that the moment they&#8217;re done paying him, he&#8217;ll
laugh maniacally and cut off their toes?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;<i>I</i> like cutting
off toes,&#8221; Tonk Fah noted.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s
different,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;It makes sense for you. Either
way, you wouldn&#8217;t do it simply because your contract ran out,
would you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Nah,&#8221; Tonk Fah
said.&#160; &#8220;Toes is toes.&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna rolled her eyes.
&#8220;Is there a point to this?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The point is,
princess,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;You were just thinking that we
were going to betray you. Maybe rob you blind or sell you to
slavery or something.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Nonsense,&#8221; Vivenna
said. &#8220;I was thinking nothing of the sort.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m sure,&#8221;
Denth replied. &#8220;Why does everyone assume that we&#8217;ll
stab them in the belly the moment we get an opportunity? Why does
everyone assume that we&#8217;re criminals?&#160; Mercenary work is
very respectable--it&#8217;s legal in almost every kingdom I
know.&#160; We&#8217;re just as much a part of the community as the
baker or the fishmonger.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Not that we pay the tax
collectors,&#8221; Tonk Fah added. &#8220;We tend to stab them in
the belly the moment we get an opportunity.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna just shook her
head.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth leaned forward, speaking
in a more serious tone. &#8220;What I&#8217;m trying to say,
princess, is that we&#8217;re not criminals. We&#8217;re employees.
Your friend Lemks was our boss. Now he&#8217;s dead. I figure that
our contract transfers to you now, if you want it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna felt a slight glimmer
of hope. <i>They aren&#8217;t Lemks,</i> she thought, <i>but
they</i> do<i>obviously know a lot about the city.</i> But could
she trust them? Despite Denth&#8217;s speech, she found it hard to
have faith in the motives and altruism of a of couple men who
fought for money.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Yet, they <i>had</i> come to
get her and hadn&#8217;t taken advantage of Lemks&#8217;s sickness.
There was no reason to assume that simply because they were
mercenaries, they were also thieves.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;All right,&#8221; she
said.&#160; &#8220;How much is left on your contract?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No idea,&#8221; Denth
said.&#160; &#8220;Jewels handles that kind of thing.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Jewels?&#8221; Vivenna
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Third member of the
group,&#8221; Tonk Fah said. &#8220;She&#8217;s off doing Jewels
stuff.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna frowned. &#8220;How
many of you are there?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Just three,&#8221; Denth
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Unless you count
pets,&#8221; Tonk Fah said, balancing his bird on his foot.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;She&#8217;ll be back in
a bit,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;I know we&#8217;ve got at least a
few months left on our contract, and we were paid half up front.
Even if you decide not to pay the rest, we probably owe you a few
more weeks.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tonk Fah nodded. &#8220;So if
there&#8217;s anyone you want killed, now would be the
time.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna paused, and Tonk Fah
chuckled.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;re really
going to have to get used to our terrible senses of humor,
princess,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;Assuming, of course,
you&#8217;re going to keep us around.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;ve already
implied that I&#8217;ll keep you,&#8221; Vivenna said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;All right,&#8221; Denth
replied. &#8220;But what are you going to do with us? Why did you
even come to the city?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna didn&#8217;t answer
immediately.&#160; <i>No point in holding back,</i> she thought.
<i>They know the most dangerous secret--my identity--already.</i>
&#8220;I&#8217;m here to rescue my sister,&#8221; she said.&#160;
&#8220;To sneak her out of the God King&#8217;s palace and see her
returned to Idris unharmed.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The mercenaries fell
silent.&#160; Finally, Tonk Fah whistled. &#8220;Ambitious,&#8221;
he noted as his parrot mimicked the whistle.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;She <i>is</i> a
princess,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;They tend to be ambitious
sorts, I hear.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Siri isn&#8217;t ready
to deal with Hallandren,&#8221; Vivenna said, leaning forward.
&#8220;My father sent her in my place, but I cannot stand the
thought of her serving as the God King&#8217;s wife. Unfortunately,
if we simply grab her and go, Hallandren will likely attack my
homeland. We need to make her disappear in a way that isn&#8217;t
damning to my people. Then, if necessary, we can substitute me in
Siri&#8217;s place.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth scratched his head.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well?&#8221; Vivenna
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Little bit out of our
realm of expertise,&#8221; Denth said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We usually hit
things,&#8221; Tonk Fah said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth nodded. &#8220;Or, at
least, keep things from getting hit. Lemks kept us on as partially
just as bodyguards.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why wouldn&#8217;t he
just send for a couple of Idris soldiers to protect him?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth and Tonk Fah exchanged a
look.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;How can I put this
delicately?&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;Princess, your Lemks was
embezzling money from the king and spending it on
Breath.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Lemks was a
patriot!&#8221; Vivenna said immediately.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That may have been the
case,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;But even a good priest isn&#8217;t
above slipping himself a few coins out of the coffer, so to speak.
I think your Lemks figured it would be better to have outside
muscle, rather than inside loyalists, protecting him.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna fell silent.&#160; It
was still hard to imagine the thoughtful, clever, and passionate
man represented in Lemk&#8217;s letters as a thief. Yet, it was
also hard to imagine Lemks holding as much Breath as he obviously
had.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But embezzling?&#160; Stealing
from Idris itself?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You know, you learn
things as a mercenary,&#8221; Denth said, resting back with hands
behind his head.&#160; &#8220;You fight enough people, and you
figure you start to understand them a bit.&#160; It&#8217;s a
strange thing. You stay alive by anticipating others. The thing is,
people aren&#8217;t simple, princess. Even Idrians.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Boring, yes,&#8221; Tonk
Fah added. &#8220;But not simple.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your Lemks, he was
involved in some big things,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;I honestly
think he <i>was</i> a patriot. There are plans and intrigues going
on in this city, princess--some of the projects Lemks had us
working on looked toward a much bigger picture.&#160; Many of those
seem to be for the good of Idris. I guess he just thought he should
be compensated a little for that patriotism.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Quite an amiable fellow,
actually,&#8221; Tonk Fah said. &#8220;Didn&#8217;t want to bother
your father. So he just did the figures on his own, gave himself a
raise, and indicated in his reports that his costs were far greater
than they really were.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna fell silent, letting
herself digest the words. How could anyone who stole money from
Idris also be a patriot? How could a person faithful to Austre end
up with several hundred BioChromatic Breaths?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shook her head wryly. <i>I
saw men who placed themselves above others, and I saw them cast
down,</i> she thought. It was one of the Five Visions, prime tenets
of her religion. She shouldn&#8217;t judge Lemks, particularly now
that he was dead. &#8220;Wait a moment,&#8221; she said, eying the
mercenaries. &#8220;You said that you were just bodyguards. What,
then, were you doing helping Lemks with
&#8216;projects&#8217;?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The two men shared a look.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Told you she was
smart,&#8221; Tonk Fah said. &#8220;Comes from not being a
mercenary.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We <i>are</i>
bodyguards, princess,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;However,
we&#8217;re not unposessing of certain. . .skills. We can make
things happen.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Things?&#8221; Vivenna
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Projects, problems,
situations,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;We know people. That&#8217;s
part of what makes us useful. Let me think about this issue with
your sister. Maybe I&#8217;ll be able to come up with some ideas.
It&#8217;s a little like kidnapping. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Which,&#8221; Tonk Fah
said, &#8220;we&#8217;re not too fond of. Did we mention
that?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; Vivenna
said. &#8220;Bad business. No money.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Exactly,&#8221; Tonk Fah
said, resting back and yawning again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What were these
&#8216;projects&#8217; Lemks was working on,&#8221; Vivenna asked,
turning back to Denth.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m not exactly
sure of the whole scope, Princess,&#8221; he admitted. &#8220;We
only saw pieces--running errands, arranging meetings, intimidating
people. It had something to do with work for your father. We can
find out for you, if you want.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna nodded. &#8220;I
do.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth stood. &#8220;All
right,&#8221; he said. He walked past Tonk Fah&#8217;s couch,
smacking the larger man&#8217;s leg, causing the bird to squawk.
&#8220;Tonk. Come on. Time to ransack the house.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tonk Fah yawned and sat up.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Wait!&#8221; Vivenna
said.&#160; &#8220;Ransack the house?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Sure,&#8221; Denth said,
heading up the stairs. &#8220;Break out any hidden safes. Search
through papers and files. Figure out what old Lemks was up
to.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He won&#8217;t care
much,&#8221; Tonk Fah said, standing. &#8220;If you want,
we&#8217;ll turn the body face down so he doesn&#8217;t have to
watch.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna shivered. She still
wasn&#8217;t certain what to do with the body, but having a pair of
toughs search his belongings felt a little unseemly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth must have noticed her
discomfort. &#8220;We don&#8217;t have to, if you don&#8217;t want
us to.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Sure,&#8221; Tonk Fah
said.&#160; &#8220;We&#8217;ll never know what Lemks was up to,
though.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Continue,&#8221; Vivenna
said. &#8220;But I&#8217;m going to supervise.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Actually, I doubt that
you will,&#8221; Denth said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And why is
that?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Because,&#8221; Denth
said.&#160; &#8220;Now, I know nobody ever asks mercenaries for
their opinion. You see--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, just get on with
it,&#8221; Vivenna said with annoyance, though she immediately
chastised herself for her ostentatious snappishness. What was wrong
with her? The last few days must be wearing on her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth just smiled, as if he
found her outburst incredibly amusing. &#8220;Today&#8217;s the day
when the Returned hold judicial court, princess.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So?&#8221; Vivenna asked
with forced calmness.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So,&#8221; Denth
replied, &#8220;it&#8217;s also the day when your sister will be
presented to the Court of Gods. I suspect that you&#8217;ll want to
go get a good look at her, see how she&#8217;s holding up. If
you&#8217;re going to do that, you&#8217;ll want to get moving.
Court will begin pretty soon here.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna folded her arms, not
moving. &#8220;I&#8217;ve been tutored all about the court, Denth.
I know things--like the fact that regular people can&#8217;t just
walk into the Court of Gods. If you want to watch judgments, you
either have to be favored of one of the Gods, be extremely
influential, or you have to draw lottery.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;True,&#8221; Denth said,
leaning against the banister. &#8220;If only we knew someone with
enough &#173;BioChromatic Breath to instantly be considered
important, and therefore gain entrance to the court without being
questioned.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ah, Denth,&#8221; Tonk
Fah said. &#8220;Someone has to have at least fifty Breath to be
considered worthy of watching judgments! That&#8217;s a terribly
high number.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna paused. &#8220;And. .
.how many Breaths do I have?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, around five hundred
or so,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;At least, that&#8217;s what Lemks
claimed he had. I&#8217;m inclined to believe him. You are, after
all, making the carpet shine.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She glanced down, noticing for
the first time that she was creating a pocket of enhanced color
around her. It wasn&#8217;t very distinct, but it <i>was</i>
noticeable.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;d better get
going, princess,&#8221; Denth said, continuing to clomp up the
stairs. &#8220;You&#8217;ll be late.&#8221;</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Fourteen</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s
raining,&#8221; Lightsong noted.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Very astute, your
grace,&#8221; Llarimar said, walking beside his god.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m not fond of
rain.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So you have often noted,
your grace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m a god,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;Shouldn&#8217;t I have power over the
weather? How can it rain if I don&#8217;t want it to?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There are currently
twenty-five Gods in the Court, your grace. Perhaps there are more
who desire rain than those who don&#8217;t.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong&#8217;s robes of gold
and red rustled as he walked. The grass was cool and damp beneath
his sandaled toes, but a group of servants carried a wide pavilion
over him. Rain fell softly on the cloth above. In T&#8217;Telir,
rainfalls were common, but they were never very strong.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong would have liked to
have seen a true rainstorm, like people said happened out in the
jungles.&#160; &#8220;I&#8217;ll take a poll then,&#8221; Lightsong
said. &#8220;Of the other Gods. See how many them wanted it to rain
today.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;If you wish, your
grace,&#8221; Llarimar said. &#8220;It won&#8217;t prove
much.&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;ll prove
who&#8217;s fault this is,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;And. . .if
it turns out that most of us want it to stop raining, perhaps that
will start a theological crisis.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar, of course,
didn&#8217;t seem bothered by the concept of a god trying to
undermine his own religion. &#8220;Your grace,&#8221; he said,
&#8220;our doctrine is <i>quite</i> sound, I assure you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And if the Gods
don&#8217;t want it to rain, yet it still does?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Would you like it to be
sunny all the time, your grace?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong shrugged.&#160;
&#8220;Sure.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And the farmers?&#8221;
Llarimar said. &#8220;Their crops would die without the rain.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It can rain on the
crops,&#8221; Lightsong said, &#8220;just not in the city. A few
selective weather patterns shouldn&#8217;t be too much for a god to
accomplish.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The people need water to
drink, your grace,&#8221; Llarimar said. &#8220;The streets need to
be washed clean.&#160; And what of the plants in the city? The
beautiful trees--even this grass that you enjoy walking
across--would die if the rain did not fall.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well,&#8221; Lightsong
said, &#8220;I could just <i>will</i> them to continue
living.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And that is what you do,
your grace,&#8221; Llarimar said. &#8220;Your soul knows that rain
in the city is best for it, and so it rains. Despite what your
consciousness thinks.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong frowned. &#8220;By
that argument, you could claim that <i>anyone</i> was a god,
Llarimar.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Not just <i>anyone</i>
comes back from the dead, your grace. Nor do they have the power to
heal the sick, and they certainly don&#8217;t have your ability to
foresee the future.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Good points, those,</i>
Lightsong thought as they approached the arena. The large, circular
structure was at the back of the Court of Gods, outside of the ring
of palaces that surrounded the courtyard. Lightsong&#8217;s
entourage moved inside--red pavilion still held above him--and
entered the sand-covered arena yard. Then they moved up a ramp
toward the seating area.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The arena had four rows of
seats for regular people--stone benches, accommodating
T&#8217;Telir citizens who were favored, lucky, or rich enough to
get themselves into a judgment session.&#160; The upper reaches of
the arena were reserved for the Returned. Here--close enough to
hear what was said on the arena floor, yet far enough back to
remain stately--were the boxes. Large, ornate, and stone, they were
large enough to hold a god&#8217;s entire entourage.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong could see that
several of his colleagues had arrived, marked by the colorful
pavilions which sat above their boxes. Windreader was there, as was
Mercystar. They passed by the empty box usually reserved for
Lightsong. Instead, they made their way around the ring and
approached a box topped by a green pavilion.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver lounged inside. Her
green and silver dress was lavish and revealing, as always.&#160;
Despite its rich trim and embroidery, it was little more than a
long swath of cloth with a hole in the center for her head. That
left it completely open on both sides from shoulder to calf, and
Blushweaver&#8217;s thighs curved out lusciously on either side.
She sat up, smiling.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I asked for this,</i>
Lightsong thought. He wasn&#8217;t certain what made him so
hesitant. Blushweaver always treated him kindly and she certainly
did have a high opinion of him. It was just that he felt like he
had to be on guard at all times when he was around her. A man could
be taken in by a woman such as she.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Taken in, then never
released.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Lightsong, dear,&#8221;
she said, smiling more deeply as Lightsong&#8217;s servants
scuttled forward, setting up his chair, footrest, and snack
table.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Blushweaver,&#8221;
Lightsong replied. &#8220;My high priest tells me that you&#8217;re
to blame for this dreary weather.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver raised an eyebrow,
and to the side--standing with the other priests--Llarimar flushed.
&#8220;I like the rain,&#8221; Blushweaver finally said, lounging
back on her couch. &#8220;It&#8217;s. . .different. I like things
that are different.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then you should be
thoroughly bored by me, my dear,&#8221; Lightsong said, seating
himself and taking a handful of grapes--already pealed--from the
bowl on his snack table.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Bored?&#8221;
Blushweaver asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I strive for nothing if
not mediocrity, and mediocrity is hardly original. If it were, I
believe that the universe should find the word far too ironic to
exist.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You bow before the whims
of the universe, then?&#8221; Blushweaver said, stretching back,
tips of her fingers wiggling as she sighed in contentment.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What else would I
do?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Fight it,&#8221;
Blushweaver said, finishing her stretch. She narrowed her eyes,
absently reaching to take one of the grapes from Lightsong&#8217;s
hand. &#8220;Fight with everything, force the universe to bow to
you instead.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t know if I
can do that, Blushweaver.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;re a
<i>god</i>.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;A god who can&#8217;t
even make it stop raining.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;<i>I</i> want it to
storm and tempest. Maybe this drizzle is the compromise between
us.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong popped another grape
in his mouth, squishing it between his teeth, feeling the sweet
juice leak onto his palate. He thought for a moment, chewing.
&#8220;Blushweaver, dear,&#8221; he finally said. &#8220;Is there
some kind of subtext to our current conversation? Because, as you
might know, I am absolutely <i>terrible</i> with subtext. It gives
me a headache.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You can&#8217;t get
headaches,&#8221; Blushweaver said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well I can&#8217;t get
subtext either. Far too subtle for me. It takes effort to
understand, and effort is--unfortunately--against my
religion.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver raised an eyebrow.
&#8220;A new tenet for those who worship you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, not that
religion,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;I mean the one that
I&#8217;m going to convert to. I&#8217;m thinking of becoming a
worshipper of Austre. His seems a rather blunt theology--black,
white, no bothering with complications. Faith without any
bothersome thinking.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver stole another
grape. &#8220;You just don&#8217;t know Austrism well enough.
It&#8217;s complex. If you&#8217;re looking for something
<i>really</i> simple, you should try the Pahn Kahl
faith.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong frowned.&#160;
&#8220;Don&#8217;t they just worship the Returned, like the rest of
us?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No. They have their own
religion.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But everyone knows the
Pahn Kahl are practically Hallandrens.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver shrugged, watching
the stadium floor below.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And. . .how exactly did
we get onto this tangent, anyway?&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;I
swear, my dear.&#160; Sometimes our conversations remind me of a
broken longsword.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She raised an eyebrow.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Sharp as hell,&#8221;
Lightsong said, &#8220;but lacking a point.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver snorted quietly.
&#8220;You&#8217;re the one who asked to meet with me,
Lightsong.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, but we both know
that you wanted me to. What are you planning,
Blushweaver?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver rolled her grape
between her fingers. &#8220;Wait,&#8221; she said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong sighed, waving for a
servant to bring him some nuts. One placed a bowl on the table,
then another came forward and began to crack them for him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Wait?&#8221; he
asked.&#160; &#8220;First you imply that I should join with you,
now you won&#8217;t tell me what you want me to do? I swear, woman.
Someday, your ridiculous sense of drama is going to cause
cataclysmic problems--like, for instance, boredom in your
companions.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s not
drama,&#8221; she said, huffing slightly. &#8220;It&#8217;s
respect.&#8221; She nodded directly across the arena, where the God
King&#8217;s box still stood empty, golden throne sitting on a
pedestal above the box itself.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ah. Feeling patriotic
today, are we?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s more that
I&#8217;m curious.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;About?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Her.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The queen?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver gave him a flat
stare. &#8220;Of course, her. Who else would I be speaking
about?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Dear, they call me
Lightsong the Brave, not Lightsong the Clever. Don&#8217;t expect
me to figure things out on my own. The queen&#8217;s period of
isolation is over, then?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver nodded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So soon?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s been a
week.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong counted off the days.
It <i>had</i> been a week. &#8220;Huh,&#8221; he said to
himself.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You really should pay
more attention, Lightsong.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shrugged. &#8220;Time tends
to pass you by more quickly when take no notice of it, my dear. In
that, it&#8217;s remarkably similar to most women I know.&#8221;
With that, he accepted a handful of nuts, then settled back to
wait.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Apparently, the people of
T&#8217;Telir weren&#8217;t fond of carriages--not even to carry
gods. Siri sat, a little bit amused, as a group of serving men
carried her chair across the grass toward a large, circular
structure at the back of the Court of Gods. It was raining. She
didn&#8217;t care. She&#8217;d been cooped up for far too long.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She turned, twisting in her
chair, looking back over a group of serving women who carried her
dress&#8217;s long golden train, keeping it off the wet grass.
Around them all walked another group of women who carried a large
pavilion, using several poles to keep it up and shade Siri from the
rain.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Could you. . .move that
aside?&#8221; Siri asked. &#8220;Let the rain fall on me?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The serving women glanced at
each other.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Just for a little
bit,&#8221; Siri said. &#8220;I promise.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The women shared frowns, but
slowed, allowing Siri&#8217;s porters to pull ahead and expose her
to the rain. She looked up, smiling as the drizzle fell on her
face. <i>Seven days is</i> far <i>too long to spend indoors,</i>
she decided.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She basked for a long moment,
enjoying the cool wetness on her skin and clothing. The grass
looked inviting.&#160; She glanced back again. &#8220;I could walk,
you know.&#8221; <i>Feel my toes on that blades. . . .</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The serving women looked very,
very uncomfortable about that concept.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Or not,&#8221; Siri
said, turning around as the women hurried up, again covering the
sky with their pavilion.&#160; They were probably right--walking
was a bad idea. Particularly since Siri had eventually chosen a
dress with such a long train. Despite her hesitance back in the
palace, she&#8217;d eventually chosen a dress far more daring than
anything she&#8217;d ever worn. The neckline was a bit low, and it
had no sleeves. It also had a curious shape that covered the front
of her legs with only a short skirt, yet had a long dress in the
back. She&#8217;d picked it half because of the novelty, though she
blushed every time she thought of how much leg it showed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They soon arrived at the round
building and her porters carried her up into it. Siri was
interested to see that it had no ceiling and had a sand-covered
floor. Just above the floor, a colorful group of people were
gathering on a series of benches.&#160; Though some of them carried
umbrellas, many were heedless of the light rain, chatting amiably
amongst themselves. Siri smiled at the collection; a hundred
different colors and as many different clothing styles were
represented. It was good to see some variety again, even if that
variety was a little garish.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her porters carried her up to a
large stone cleft built into the side of the building. Here, her
women slid the pavilion poles into slots in the stone, letting it
stand freely to cover the entire box. Servants scuttled about,
getting things ready, and her porters put her down. She stood,
frowning. She was finally free of the palace. And yet it appeared
as if she were going to have to sit above everyone else. Even the
other gods--which she assumed were in the other pavilioned
boxes--were distant from her, separated by walls.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>How is it that they can make
me feel alone, even when surrounded by hundreds of people?</i> She
turned to one of her serving women. &#8220;The God King. Where is
he?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The woman gestured toward the
other pavilions set into boxes like Siri&#8217;s.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He&#8217;s in one of
them?&#8221; Siri asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No, Vessel,&#8221; the
woman said very, eyes downcast. &#160;&#8220;He will not arrive
until the gods are all here.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Ah,</i> Siri thought.
<i>Makes sense, I guess.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She sat back in her chair as
several servants prepared food. To the side, a minstrel began to
play a flute, as if to drown out the sounds of the talking below.
She would rather have heard the people. Still, she decided not to
let herself get into a bad mood. At least she was outside, and she
could <i>see</i> other people, even if she couldn&#8217;t interact
with them. She smiled to herself, leaning forward, elbows on knees
as she studied the exotic colors below. &#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;What was she to make of
T&#8217;Telir people? They were just so remarkably diverse. Some
had dark skin, which meant they were from the edges of the
Hallandren kingdom. Others had yellow hair, or even strange hair
colors--blue and green--that came, Siri assumed, from dyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;All wore brilliant clothing, as
if there were no other option. Ornate hats were popular, both on
men and women. Clothing ranged from vests and shorts to deep robes
and gowns.&#160; <i>How much time must they spend shopping!</i> It
was difficult enough for her to choose what to wear, and she only
had about a dozen choices each day--and no hats. After she&#8217;d
refused the first few, the servants had stopped offering
them.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;As she watched, entourage after
entourage arrived, each bearing a different set of colors--a hue
and a metallic, usually. She counted the pavilions. There were room
for some fifty gods, but the Court only had a couple dozen. Twenty
five, was it? In each procession, she saw a figure standing taller
than the others. Some--mostly the women--were carried on chairs or
couches. The men generally walked, some wearing intricate robes,
others wearing nothing more than sandals and skirt.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They stood out. It wasn&#8217;t
just their height. There was a. . .radiance to them. Not a glow
like the sun or a lantern; the colors around them just seemed more
vibrant, the people near them more healthy. Siri leaned forward,
studying one god as he walked right by her box. His bare chest made
her blush, but it let her see his well-muscled body and toned
flesh.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He glanced at her, then nodded
his head slightly in respect. His servants and priests bowed almost
to the ground. The god continued on, having said nothing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She sat back in her chair,
shaking her head to as one of the servants tried to bring her food.
&#160;There were still four or five gods left to arrive.
Apparently, the Hallandren deities weren&#8217;t as punctual as
Bluefingers&#8217; schedule-keeping had led her to believe.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna stepped through the
gates, passing into the Hallandren Court of Gods. She hesitated,
and small groups of people passed through on either side of her,
though there wasn&#8217;t much of a crowd.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth had been right; it had
been easy for her to get into the Court. The priests at the gate
had waved Vivenna through without even asking her identity. She
turned back, glancing at the men in their blue robes. She could see
bubbles of colorfulness around them, indications of their strong
BioChroma.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She&#8217;d been tutored about
this. The priests guarding the gates had enough Breath to get them
to the First Heightening, the state at which a person gained the
ability to distinguish levels of Breath in other people. Vivenna
had it too. It wasn&#8217;t that auras or colors looked different
to her. In fact, the ability to distinguish Breath was similar to
the perfect pitch she had gained. Other people heard the same
sounds she did, she just had the ability to pick them apart.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She saw how close a person had
to get to one of the priests before the colors increased, and she
exactly how much more colorful those hues became. This information
let her know intrinsically that each of the priests was of the
First Heightening. Parlin had one Breath, as did the regular
peasants who had to present papers to gain entrance to the Court.
She could tell how strong that Breath was, and if the person was
sick or not.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priests each had exactly
fifty Breaths, as did the majority of the more wealthy individuals
entering through the gates. A reasonable number had two or three
hundred Breaths, enough for the Second Heightening and the perfect
pitch it granted. Only a couple had more than Vivenna, who had
apparently reached all the way to the Third Heightening and the
perfect color recognition it granted.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She turned away. She&#8217;d
been tutored about the Heightenings, but she&#8217;d never expected
to experience one first hand. She felt dirty. Profane. Particularly
because the colors were just so <i>beautiful.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She looked up. The court
contained a wide circle of palaces, just like her tutors had
explained.&#160; Those tutors had not mentioned how each palace was
so perfectly balanced in color and hue. Each was a work of art,
containing subtle color gradients that normal people just
wouldn&#8217;t be able to appreciate. These sat on a pure,
uniformly green lawn. It was trimmed carefully, and it was marred
by neither road nor pathway. Vivenna stepped onto it, Parlin at her
side, and part of her wished to kick off her shoes and walk in the
wet, dew-covered grass. That wouldn&#8217;t be appropriate at all,
and she stifled the impulse.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The drizzle was finally
starting to let up, and Parlin lowered the parasol he&#8217;d
bought--against her wishes--to keep them both dry. &#8220;So, this
is it,&#8221; he said, shaking off the parasol. &#8220;The Court of
Gods.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna nodded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Good place to graze
sheep.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I doubt that,&#8221; she
said quietly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Parlin frowned.&#160;
&#8220;Goats, then?&#8221; he finally said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna sighed, and they joined
the small procession walking across the grass toward a structure
outside of the circle of palaces. She&#8217;d been worried about
standing out--after all, she still wore her simple Idris dress,
with its high neck, functional fabric, and muted colors. Yet, she
was beginning to realize that there just <i>wasn&#8217;t</i> a way
to stand out in T&#8217;Telir.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The people around her wore such
a stunning variety of outfits that she wondered who had the
imagination to design them all. Some were as covering as
Vivenna&#8217;s but others had muted colors--though these were
usually accented by bright scarves or hats. Modesty in both design
and color was obviously unpopular, but not non-existent.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>It&#8217;s all about drawing
attention,</i> she realized. <i>The whites and faded colors are a
reaction against the bright colors. But, because everyone tries so
hard to look distinctive, nobody does!</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Which meant, probably, that she
was safe. Feeling a little more secure, she glanced at Parlin, who
seemed more at peace now that they were away from the larger crowds
below.&#160; &#8220;Interesting buildings,&#8221; he said.
&#8220;The people wear so much color, but that palace is just one
color. Wonder why that is.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s not one
color. It&#8217;s many different shades of the same
color.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Parlin shrugged. &#8220;Red is
red.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;How could she explain?
&#160;Each red was different, like notes on a musical scale. The
walls were of pure red.&#160; The roof tiles, side columns, and
other ornamentations were of slightly different shades, each
distinct and intentional. The columns, for instance, formed
stepping fifths of color, harmonizing with the base tint of the
walls.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was like a symphony of hues.
The building had obviously been constructed for a person who had
obtained the Third Heightening, for only one such as Vivenna would
be able to see the ideal resonance. To others. . .well, it was just
a bunch of red.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They passed the red palace,
approaching the arena, which had also been part of Vivenna&#8217;s
lessons. Central to the lives of the Hallandren gods was
entertainment. After all, one couldn&#8217;t expect gods to do
anything useful with their time. Much of the time, they were
entertained in their palaces or on the courtyard law. For
particularly large events, there was the arena--which also served
as the location of Hallandren legislative debates. Today, the
priests of various gods would argue for the sport of their
deities.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna and Parlin waited their
turn as the people crowded around the arena entrance. Vivenna
glanced to the side, toward another gateway, wondering why nobody
used it. The answer was made manifest as a figure approached. He
was surrounded by servants, some carrying a canopy. All were
dressed in blue and silver, matching their leader, who stood a good
head taller than the others.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And he gave off a BioChromatic
aura like Vivenna had never seen--though, admittedly, she&#8217;d
only been able to see them for a few hours. His bubble of enhanced
color was enormous; it extended some thirty feet. To her First
Heightening senses, the god&#8217;s Breath registered as infinite.
Undistinguishable. For the first time, Vivenna could see that there
<i>was</i> something different about Returned.&#160; They
weren&#8217;t just Awakeners with more power.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The god entered the arena
through the open gateway. As she watched him, Vivenna&#8217;s sense
of awe wore off. There was an arrogance to this man&#8217;s
posture, a dismissiveness about the way he entered freely while
others waited their turn at a small, cramped opening.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>To keep him alive,</i>
Vivenna thought, <i>he has to absorb a person&#8217;s Breath each
week.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She&#8217;d let herself become
too sympathetic, and she felt her former revulsion returning. Color
and beauty couldn&#8217;t cover up such lavish conceit, nor could
it hide parasitic sins. There was nothing wrong with BioChroma and
nothing evil about being a Returned. It was the way the Hallandren
people used such things that was wrong.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The god disappeared into the
arena. Vivenna waited, thinking for a time on her own BioChroma and
what it meant. She was completely shocked when a man beside her
suddenly lifted off the ground.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She jumped. The man was rose
into the air, lifted by his overly long cloak. The cloth was stiff,
looking a little like a hand as it held the man up high so he could
look over the crowd. <i>How does it do that?</i> She&#8217;d been
told that Breath could give life to objects, but what did
&#8216;life&#8217; mean? It seemed as if each of the threads in the
cloak were taught, like muscles, but how did it lift something so
much heavier than it was?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man lowered to the ground.
He said something Vivenna couldn&#8217;t hear, and his BioChromatic
aura grew stronger as he recovered his Breath from the cloak.
&#8220;We should be moving again soon,&#8221; the man said to his
friends. &#8220;Crowd is thinning up above.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Indeed, soon the crowd started
to progress. It wasn&#8217;t long before Vivenna and Parlin entered
the arena itself. They scanned the stone benches, selecting a place
that wasn&#8217;t too crowded. Parlin seemed nervous to be around
so many people, but Vivenna ignored him. She was too busy searching
the arena.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The building was ornate, but
not very big. It didn&#8217;t take her long to locate Siri, and
when she did, her heart sank. <i>My. . .sister,</i> Vivenna thought
with a chill. <i>My poor sister.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri was dressed in a
scandalous golden dress that didn&#8217;t even come down to her
knees. It had a plunging neckline as well. Siri&#8217;s hair, which
even she should have been able to keep a dark brown, was instead
the golden yellow of enjoyment, and it had been woven with deep red
ribbons. She was being attended by dozens of servants.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Look what they&#8217;ve
done to her,&#8221; Vivenna said. &#8220;She must be frightened
senseless, forced to wear something like that, forced to keep her
hair a color that matches her clothing. . . .&#8221; <i>Forced to
be slave to the God King.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Peprin&#8217;s face grew
hard.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri was being exploited, they
were carrying her around and displaying her like some kind of
victory trophy. It seemed to Vivenna a statement. They wanted to
prove that they could take a chaste, innocent Idris woman and do
whatever they wished with her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Seeing her sister treated that
way roused every protective instinct Vivenna had, irritating her
already swollen feelings of guilt. <i>What I&#8217;m doing is
right,</i> Vivenna thought. <i>Coming to Hallandren</i> was <i>the
best thing to do. Lemks might be dead, but I have to press onward.
I have to find a way.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I have to save my
sister.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Vivenna?&#8221; Parlin
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Hum?&#8221; Vivenna
asked, distracted.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why is everyone starting
to bow?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri played idly with one of
the tassels on her dress. The final god was seating himself in his
pavilion. <i>That&#8217;s twenty-five,</i> she thought. <i>It
should be all of them.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Suddenly, out in the audience,
people began to rise, then kneel to the ground. Siri stood,
searching anxiously. She didn&#8217;t see anything. What was she
missing? Had the God King arrived, or was this something else? Even
the gods had gone down on their knees, though they didn&#8217;t bow
themselves down as far as the people.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And they all seemed to be
bowing toward Siri. <i>Some sort of ritual greeting for their new
queen?</i>&#160;&#160; Then she saw it. Her dress exploded with
color, the stone at her feet gained luster, and her very skin
became more vibrant. In front of her, a white serving bowl began to
shine, then it seemed to stretch, the white color splitting into
the colors of the rainbow.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A serving women tugged on
Siri&#8217;s sleeve from where she knelt below.
&#8220;Vessel,&#8221; the woman whispered, &#8220;behind
you!&#8221;</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear=
"all" style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Fifteen</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Breath catching in her chest,
Siri turned. She found <i>him</i> standing behind her, though she
had no idea how he had arrived. There was no entrance from behind,
just the stone wall.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He wore white. She hadn&#8217;t
expected that. Something about his BioChroma made the pure white
split as she&#8217;d seen before, breaking like light passing
through a prism. &#160;She could finally see this properly, during
the light. His clothing seemed to stretch, forming a robe-shamed
rainbow in a colorful aura around him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And he was young. Far younger
than her shadowed meetings had prepared her for. He had supposedly
reigned in Hallandren for decades, yet the man standing behind her
couldn&#8217;t be more than twenty. She stared at him, awed, mouth
opening slightly, and any words she had thought to say escaped her.
This man <i>was</i> a god. The very air distorted before him. How
could she have not seen it? How could she possibly have treated him
as she had? She felt like a fool.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He regarded her, expression
flat and unreadable, face so controlled that he reminded Siri of
Vivenna.&#160; Vivenna. She wouldn&#8217;t have been so
belligerent. She would have deserved marriage to such a majestic
creature.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The serving woman hissed
quietly, tugging again at Siri&#8217;s dress. Belatedly, Siri
dropped to her knees on the stone, long dress train flapping
slightly in the wind behind her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver knelt obediently on
her cushion. Lightsong, however, remained standing. He looked
across the stadium toward a man he could barely see. The God King
wore white, as he often did, for dramatic effect. As the only man
to have achieved the Tenth Heightening, the God King had such a
strong aura that he could draw color even from something
colorless.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver glanced up at
Lightsong.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why do we kneel?&#8221;
Lightsong asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s our
king!&#8221; Blushweaver hissed. &#8220;Kneel, fool.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What will happen if I
don&#8217;t?&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;They can&#8217;t execute
me. I&#8217;m a god.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You could hurt our
cause!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Our cause?</i> Lightsong
thought. <i>One meeting and I&#8217;m already part of her
plans?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But, he wasn&#8217;t so foolish
that he would earn the God King&#8217;s ire. Who was he to risk his
perfect life, full of people who would carry his chair through the
rain and shell his nuts for him? He knelt down on his cushion. The
God King&#8217;s superiority was arbitrary, much like
Lightsong&#8217;s divinity. Both were, in his view, part of a grand
game of make-believe.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But he&#8217;d found that
imaginary items were often the only things of real substance in
people&#8217;s lives.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri breathed quickly, kneeling
on the stone before her husband. The entire arena was hushed and
still. Eyes downcast, she could still see Susebron&#8217;s
white-clothed feet in front of her. Even they gave off an aura of
color, the white straps of his sandals bending out colorful ribbons
of light.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Finally, two piles of colorful
rope hit the ground on either side of the God King. Siri glanced up
as the ropes twisted with a life of their own, wrapping around
Susebron and pulling him into the air. His white robes fluttered as
he was towed up through the space between the canopy and the back
wall. Siri leaned forward, watching the ropes deposit her husband
on a stone outcropping above. He sat back into a golden throne.
Beside him, a pair of Awakener priests commanded their living ropes
to roll up around their arms.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The God King outstretched his
hand. The people stood up--their chatter beginning again--and
reseated themselves. Frowning to herself, Siri rose. <i>So. .
.he&#8217;s not going to sit with me,</i> she thought. A part of
her was relieved, though an equally strong part was frustrated.
She&#8217;d been getting over her awe of being in Hallandren and
being married to a god. Now, he&#8217;d gone and impressed her
again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;This time it was different.
Before, she&#8217;d been quelled by the God King&#8217;s
reputation. Now that she&#8217;d seen him, she could tell that he
<i>was</i> majestic. Troubled, she sat and stared out over the
crowds, barely watching as a group of priests entered the arena
below.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;What was she to make of
Susebron? He couldn&#8217;t be a God. Not really. Could he?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She&#8217;d always been taught
of Austre. He was the true God of men, the one who sent the
Returned. The Hallandren had worshiped him as well, before the
Manywar and the exile of the Royal family. The Hallandren had
fallen to become pagans, worshipping the Iridescent Tones:
BioChromatic Breath, the Returned, and art in general.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And yet, Siri had never seen
Austre. She&#8217;d been taught, and she&#8217;d learned, but what
was one to make of a creature like the God King? That divine halo
of color wasn&#8217;t something that she could ignore. She began to
understand just how the people of Hallandren--after nearly being
destroyed by their enemies, then being saved by the diplomatic
skills of Peacegiver the Blessed--could look toward the Returned
for divine guidance.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She sighed, glancing to the
side as a figure walked up the steps toward her box. It was
Bluefingers--hands stained with ink, characteristically scribbling
away on a ledger even as he entered her pavilion. He glanced up at
the God King, nodded to himself, then made another annotation on
his ledger. &#8220;I see that the God King is positioned and that
you are properly displayed, Vessel.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Displayed?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course,&#8221;
Bluefingers said. &#8220;That is the main purpose of your visit
here. Most of the Returned didn&#8217;t get a chance to study you
when you first came to us. &#160;You need to be presented before
them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri shivered at the thought,
trying to maintain a better posture. &#8220;Shouldn&#8217;t they be
paying attention to the priests down there? Instead of studying me,
I mean.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Probably,&#8221;
Bluefingers said, not looking up from his ledger. &#8220;In my
experience, they rarely do what they&#8217;re supposed
to.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri let the conversation
lapse. There was something she&#8217;d been meaning to ask
Bluefingers. He&#8217;d never explained his odd warning the other
night. <i>Things are not what they seem.</i> &#160;She glanced at
the scribe. &#8220;Bluefingers,&#8221; she said. &#8220;About the
thing you told me the other night. The--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He immediately shot her a
look--eyes wide and insistent--cutting her off. He turned back to
his ledger. The message was obvious. Not right now.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri sighed, resisting the urge
to slump down. Below, priests of various colors stood on short
platforms, debating. She could hear them quite well. Yet, little of
what they said made sense to her--the current debate appeared to
have something to do with the way refuse and sewage was handled in
the city.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Bluefingers,&#8221; she
asked. &#8220;Are they really gods?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The scribe hesitated, then
finally looked up from his ledger. &#8220;Vessel?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The Returned. Do you
really think that they&#8217;re divine? That they can see the
future?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I. . .don&#8217;t think
I&#8217;m the right one to ask about these things, Vessel. Let me
fetch one of the priests. He can answer your questions. Just give
me a--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; Siri said,
causing him to stop. &#8220;I don&#8217;t want a priest&#8217;s
opinion--I want the opinion of a regular person, like you. A
typical follower.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers frowned.&#160;
&#8220;All apologies, Vessel, but I&#8217;m <i>not</i> a follower
of the Returned.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But you work in the
palace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And <i>you</i> live
there, Vessel. Yet neither of us worship the Iridescent Tones. You
are from Idris. I am from Pahn Kahl.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Pahn Kahl is the same as
Hallandren.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers raised an eyebrow,
pursing his lips. &#8220;Actually, Vessel, it&#8217;s quite
different.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But you&#8217;re ruled
by the God King.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We can accept him as
king without worshipping him as our god,&#8221; Bluefingers said.
&#8220;That is one of the reasons why I&#8217;m a steward in the
palace instead of a priest.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>His robes,</i> Siri thought.
<i>Maybe that&#8217;s why he always wears brown.</i> She turned,
glancing down at the priests upon their pedestals in the sand. Each
wore a different set of colors, each representing--she assumed--a
different one of the Returned. &#8220;So what do you think of
them?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Good people,&#8221;
Bluefingers said, &#8220;but misguided. A little like I think of
you, Vessel.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She glanced at him.&#160; He,
however, had already turned back to his ledgers. He wasn&#8217;t
exactly the easiest man with whom to have a conversation.
&#8220;But, how do you explain the God King&#8217;s
radiance?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;BioChroma,&#8221;
Bluefingers said, still scribbling, not sounding at all annoyed by
her questions. He was obviously a man accustomed to dealing with
interruption.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But the rest of the
Returned don&#8217;t bend white into colors like he does, do
they?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; Bluefingers
said, &#8220;indeed they do not. They, however, don&#8217;t hold
the wealth of Breaths that he does.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So he <i>is</i>
different,&#8221; Siri said. &#8220;Why was he born with
more?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He wasn&#8217;t, Vessel.
The God King&#8217;s power does not from the inherent BioChroma of
being a Returned--in that, he is identical to the others. However,
he holds something else. The Light of Peace, they call it. A fancy
word for a treasure trove of Breath that numbers somewhere in the
tens of thousands.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Tens of thousands?</i> Siri
thought. &#8220;That much?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers nodded
distractedly. &#8220;The God Kings are said to be the only ones to
ever achieve the Tenth Heightening. <i>That</i> is what makes light
fracture around him; it is less a symbol of divinity, and more a
simple function of holding so much Breath.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But where did he get
it?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The largest bulk of it
was originally gathered by Peacegiver the Blessed,&#8221;
Bluefingers said. &#8220;He collected thousands of Breaths during
the days of the Manywar. He passed those on to the first Hallandren
God King. That inheritance has been transferred from father to son
for centuries--and has been enlarged, since each God King is given
two Breaths a week, instead of the one that regular Returned
receive.&#8221;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh,&#8221; Siri said,
sitting back, finding herself oddly disappointed by the news.
Susebron was not a god, he was simply a man with far more BioChroma
than normal.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But. . .what of the Returned
themselves? Siri folded her arms again. She&#8217;d never been
forced to look objectively at what she believed. Austre was simply.
. .well, God. You didn&#8217;t question people when they talked
about God. The Returned were usurpers, who had cast the followers
of Austre out of Hallandren.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Yet the Returned
themselves were so majestic. Why <i>had</i> the Royal family been
cast out of Hallandren? She knew the official story taught in
Idris--that the Royals hadn&#8217;t supported the conflicts that
led up to the Manywar. For that, the people had revolted against
them. That revolt had been led by Klad the Usurper.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Klad. Though Siri had avoided
most of her tutorial sessions, even she knew the stories of that
man.&#160; He was the one who had led the people of Hallandren in
the heresy of building Lifeless, the one who had taught them how to
reanimate a body using a single BioChromatic Breath. &#160;Before
that, Lifeless had been far more expensive. After Klad&#8217;s
discovery, each person could effectively become two soldiers: a man
with a sword in his own hand, and a Lifeless bearing his
Breath.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She hadn&#8217;t, at least,
seen any Lifeless in the palace.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Klad had created a powerful
army of the creatures, one the likes of which had never been seen
in the land.&#160; She didn&#8217;t know a lot about it.
Klad&#8217;s Lifeless had been more dangerous somehow, but that was
all she remembered. He&#8217;d eventually been defeated by
Peacegiver, who had then ended the Manywar through diplomacy. Yet,
Peacegiver had not restored Hallandren to its rightful rulers.
Idris histories claimed betrayal and treachery. The monks spoke of
heresies that were too deeply ingrained into Hallandren.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Surely the Hallandren people
had their own story of events. Watching the Returned in their
pavilions made Siri wonder. One fact seemed obvious: things in
Hallandren were a whole lot less terrible than she had been
taught.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna shivered, cringing as
the people in their colorful outfits crowded around her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Things here are worse, even,
than my tutors said,</i> she decided, wiggling in her seat. Parlin
seemed to have lost much of his nervousness about being in such a
crowd. He was focused on the arguing priests on the floor of the
arena.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna found herself feeling
annoyed at him. She still couldn&#8217;t decide if she thought the
Breath she held to be horrible or wonderful. More and more, she was
coming to realize that it was horrible <i>because</i> of how
wonderful it felt. The more people that surged around her, the more
overwhelmed she felt. Surely if Parlin could sense the sheer scope
of all those colors, he wouldn&#8217;t gawk so dumbly at the
costumes. Surely if he could <i>feel</i> the people, he would feel
boxed in like she did, unable to breathe.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>That&#8217;s it,</i> she
thought. <i>I&#8217;ve seen Siri, and I know what they&#8217;ve
done with her. It&#8217;s time to go.</i> She stood, turning, and
froze.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A man was standing two rows
back, and he was staring directly at Vivenna. She normally
wouldn&#8217;t have paid him any attention. He was wearing ragged
brown clothing, ripped in places, his loose trousers tied at the
waist by a simple rope. He wore facial hair that was half-way
between being a beard and scruff. His hair was unkempt and came
down to his shoulders.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And he created a bubble of
color around him so bright that he had to be of the Fifth
Heightening. He stared at her, meeting her eyes, and she had a
sudden and awful panicked sense that he knew who she was.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She stumbled back. The strange
man didn&#8217;t take his eyes off of her. He shifted, pushing back
his cloak and exposing a large, black-hilted sword at his belt. Few
people in Hallandren wore weapons. This man didn&#8217;t seem to
care. The people to the sides gave him a wide berth, and Vivenna
swore she could sense <i>something</i> about that sword. It seemed
to darken colors. Deepen them. Make tans into browns, reds into
maroons, blues into navies.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Parlin,&#8221; she said,
more sharply than she&#8217;d intended. &#8220;We&#8217;re
leaving.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;<i>Now</i>,&#8221;
Vivenna said, turning and rushing away, head bowed. Something about
her newfound BioChroma whispered to her that the man&#8217;s eyes
were still upon her. Now that she realized it, she understood that
his eyes on her were probably what had made her so uncomfortable in
the first place.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>The tutors spoke of
this,</i> she thought as she and Parlin made their way to one of
the stone exit passages. <i>Life sense, the ability to tell when
there are people nearby, and to tell when they&#8217;re watching
you. Everyone has it in a small amount.&#160; BioChroma enhances
that.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;As soon as they entered the
passage, the sense of being watched vanished, and Vivenna let out a
relieved breath.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t see why
you wanted to leave,&#8221; Parlin said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We&#8217;ve seen what we
needed to,&#8221; Vivenna said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I guess,&#8221; Parlin
said..&#160; &#8220;I thought you might want to listen to what the
priests were saying about Idris.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna froze.
&#8220;What?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Parlin frowned, looking
distraught. &#8220;I think they might be declaring war. Don&#8217;t
we have a treaty?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Lord God of Colors!</i>
Vivenna thought, turning and scrambling back up into the open
theater.</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Sixteen</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;. . .still say that we
cannot <i>possibly</i> justify military action against
Idris!&#8221; a priest yelled. The man wore blue and gold. It was
Stillmark&#8217;s high priest--Lightsong couldn&#8217;t quite
remember the man&#8217;s name. Nanrovah?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The argument was not
unexpected. Still, Lightsong leaned forward, interested. Nanrovah
and his master, Stillmark, were both stanch traditionalists. They
tended to argue against pretty much every topic, but were
well-respected. Stillmark was nearly as old as Blushweaver, and was
spoken of as wise. Lightsong rubbed his chin.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Arguing with Nanrovah was
Blushweaver&#8217;s own high priestess, Inhanna. &#8220;Oh, come
now,&#8221; the woman said from the sands down below. &#8220;Do we
really need to have <i>this</i> argument again? Idris is nothing
more than a rebel enclave set up inside the borders of our own
kingdom!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They keep to
themselves,&#8221; Nanrovah said. &#8220;Holding lands we
don&#8217;t really want anyway.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Lands we don&#8217;t
want?&#8221; Blushweaver&#8217;s priestess said, sputtering.
&#8220;They hold every single pass to the northern kingdoms! Every
workable copper mine in the area! They have military garrisons
within striking distance of T&#8217;Telir! And they <i>still</i>
claim to be the rightful kings of Hallandren!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Nanrovah fell silent, and there
was a surprisingly large rumble of assent from the watching
priests.&#160; Lightsong eyed them. &#8220;You&#8217;ve seeded the
group with people sympathetic to your cause?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course,&#8221;
Blushweaver said. &#8220;But so did the others. I just did a better
job.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The debate continued, other
priests stepping up to argue for and against an assault on Idris.
It was not a new topic. However, Lightsong never seen the
discussion become so explicit. Sanctions had been discussed.
Blockades. Even some military pressure. But war? Nobody had said
the word yet, but they all knew what the priests were
discussing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Arguments in the court were
meant to bring information to the Gods. The priests listened to the
people and studied issues of national import, then discussed them
in the arena. That way, the gods--who didn&#8217;t have the
opportunity to go out among the people--could be informed. If an
issue came to head, the gods would make their judgments. They were
divided into sub-groups, each one having responsibility in a
certain area. Some Gods were in charge of civic problems; others
were over trade agreements and treaties.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Some, like Lightsong, held
votes regarding the use of Hallandren&#8217;s Lifeless armies.
&#8220;You&#8217;re behind this, then,&#8221; he said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Behind it?&#8221;
Blushweaver said sweetly. &#8220;Dear Lightsong, the priests decide
the issues to be discussed. Gods don&#8217;t bother with such
mundanity.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m sure,&#8221;
Lightsong said, resting back. &#8220;You need my Lifeless
Commands.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I wouldn&#8217;t say
that,&#8221; Blushweaver said, &#8220;I just want you to be
informed should you. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She trailed off as Lightsong
gave her a flat look.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Aw, Colors,&#8221; she
swore.&#160; &#8220;Of <i>course</i> I need your commands,
Lightsong. Why else would I go to all the trouble to get you up
here? You&#8217;re a very difficult person to manipulate, you
know.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Nonsense,&#8221; he
said.&#160; &#8220;You just have to promise me that I won&#8217;t
have to do a thing, and then I&#8217;ll do anything you
want--provided that anything is nothing, of course. Nothing bothers
me more than doing things.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver rolled her
eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong was more troubled
than he let on. The arguments for attack had never been so
strong.&#160; There was proof of a military buildup in Idris and
the highlanders had been particularly stingy with the northern
passes lately. Beyond that, there was a growing belief that the
Returned were weaker than they&#8217;d been in previous
generations. Not less powerful in BioChroma, just less. . .divine.
Less benevolent, less wise. Lightsong happened to agree.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It had been three years since a
Returned had given up his or her life to heal someone. The people
were growing impatient with their gods. &#8220;There&#8217;s more,
isn&#8217;t there?&#8221; he said, glancing at Blushweaver, who was
still lounging back, eating cherries with delicate fingers.
&#8220;What aren&#8217;t they saying?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Lightsong, dear,&#8221;
she said. &#8220;You were right. Bring you to court, and it
absolutely corrupts you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I just don&#8217;t like
secrets,&#8221; he said. &#8220;They itch at the brain, keep you
awake at nights.&#160; Engaging in politics is like pulling off a
bandage--best to get the pain over with quickly.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver pursed her lips.
&#8220;Forced metaphor, dear.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Best I can do at the
moment, I&#8217;m afraid. Nothing dulls the wit quicker than
politics. Now, you were saying. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She snorted. &#8220;I&#8217;ve
told you already. The focus of this all is that woman.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The queen,&#8221; he
said, glancing at the God King&#8217;s pavilion.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They sent the wrong
one,&#8221; Blushweaver said. &#8220;Changed plans at the last
moment. They picked the youngest daughter, wrapped her up, and
shipped her off instead of the eldest, who had been going through
training to become queen.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong paused.&#160;
&#8220;Clever,&#8221; he admitted.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Clever?&#8221;
Blushweaver said. &#8220;It&#8217;s downright brilliant. Do you
know what a fortune most of us all paid these last twenty years to
spy upon, study, and learn about the eldest daughter? Those of us
who thought to make a backup studied the second daughter, the one
they&#8217;ve made a monk. But the youngest? Nobody gave her half a
thought.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>And so the Idrians send a
random element into court,</i> Lightsong thought. <i>One that
upsets plans and conniving that our politicians have been working
on for decades.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It <i>was</i> brilliant.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Nobody knows
<i>anything</i> about her,&#8221; Blushweaver said, frowning
deeply. She obviously did not like being taken by surprise.
&#8220;My spies in Idris say the girl is of little
consequence--which makes me worry that she is even more dangerous
than I&#8217;d feared.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong raised an eyebrow.
&#8220;And you don&#8217;t think, maybe, that you might be
over-reacting a tad?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh?&#8221; Blushweaver
asked. &#8220;And tell me, what would <i>you</i> do if you wanted
to inject an agent into the court? Would you do what everyone
expected you to? Or, would you set up a dummy that you could show
off, drawing attention away from the <i>real</i> agent, who you can
train secretly? Someone you can send off to achieve an agenda that
nobody thought to investigate?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong rubbed his chin.
<i>She has a point</i>. Maybe. Living among so many scheming people
tended to make one see plots everywhere. Real or imagined, however,
the plot that Blushweaver suggested had a very serious chance of
being dangerous. What better way to get an assassin close to the
God King than to send someone to marry him?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;No, that wouldn&#8217;t be
it.&#160; Killing the God King would just cause Hallandren to go on
the rampage. But if they&#8217;d sent a woman trained in the art of
skilled manipulation--a woman who could secretly poison the mind of
the God King. . . .</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We need to be ready to
act,&#8221; Blushweaver said. &#8220;I won&#8217;t sit and let my
kingdom be pulled away from me--I won&#8217;t idly be cast out as
the Royals once were. You command a fourth of our Lifeless.
That&#8217;s ten thousand soldiers who don&#8217;t need to eat, and
who can march tirelessly. If we convince the other three Returned
with Commands to join us. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong thought for a moment,
then nodded and stood.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What are you
doing?&#8221; Blushweaver asked, sitting up.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I think I&#8217;ll go
for a stroll,&#8221; Lightsong said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Where?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong glanced over at the
queen.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, blessed
colors,&#8221; Blushweaver said with a sigh. &#8220;Lightsong, do
<i>not</i> ruin this. We walk a very delicate line,
here.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;ll do my
best.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t suppose I
can talk you out of interacting with her?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My dear,&#8221;
Lightsong said, glancing backward. &#8220;That queen just became a
thousand times more fascinating to me. I at least have to chat with
her. Nothing would be more intolerable than being overthrown by a
person with whom I&#8217;d never had a nice
conversation.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers wandered off
sometime during the court proceedings. Siri didn&#8217;t
notice--she was too busy watching the priests argue.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She had to be misinterpreting.
Surely they couldn&#8217;t be thinking about attacking Idris. She
knew that some of her people feared it would happen, but
she&#8217;d never believed it herself. What would be the point?
What would Hallandren gain? As the priests finished their
discussion, moving to another topic, Siri turned to one of her
serving women. &#8220;What was that about?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The woman glanced down, not
answering.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They sounded like they
were discussing war,&#8221; Siri said. &#8220;They wouldn&#8217;t
really invade, would they?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The woman shuffled
uncomfortably, then glanced at one of her companions. That woman
rushed away. A few moments later, the servant returned with
Tridees. Siri frowned slightly. She did <i>not</i> like speaking
with the man.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, Vessel?&#8221; the
tall man said, eyeing her with his usual air of distain.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She swallowed, refusing to be
intimidated. &#8220;The priests,&#8221; she said. &#8220;What were
they just discussing?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your homeland of Idris,
Vessel.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I know that much,&#8221;
Siri said. &#8220;What do they want with Idris?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It seemed to me, Vessel,
that they were arguing about whether or not to attack the rebel
province and bring it back under governmental control.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Rebel
province?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, Vessel. Your people
are in a state of rebellion from the rest of the
kingdom.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But you rebelled against
us!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tridees raised an eyebrow.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Different viewpoints on
history indeed,</i> Siri thought. In the eyes of this man,
apparently, the Idris people were simply an unruly faction waiting
to be quelled. &#8220;I can see how somebody might think like you
do,&#8221; she said. &#8220;But. . .you wouldn&#8217;t really
attack us, would you? We sent you a queen, just like you demanded.
The next God King will have Royal blood.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Assuming the current God
King ever decides to consummate our wedding. . . .</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tridees simply shrugged.
&#8220;It is likely nothing, Vessel. The priests debate matters
that are being discussed by the people of the city. I doubt
anything will come of it.&#160; The gods simply needed to be
appraised of the current political climate of
T&#8217;Telir.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;His words didn&#8217;t offer
Siri much comfort. She shivered. Should she be doing something?
Trying to politic in Idris&#8217;s defense?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Vessel,&#8221; Tridees
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She glanced at him. His tall
peaked hat was so large it brushed the top of the canopy. In a city
full of colors and beauty, for some reason Tridees&#8217;s long
face seemed even bleaker for the contrast. &#8220;Yes?&#8221; she
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There is a matter of
some delicacy I fear that I must discuss with you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What is that?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You are familiar with
monarchies,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Indeed, you are the daughter of
a king. I assume that you know how important it is to a government
that there be a secure, stable plan for succession.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I guess.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Therefore,&#8221;
Tridees said, &#8220;you realize that it is of no small importance
that an heir be provided as <i>quickly</i> as possible.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri blushed.
&#8220;We&#8217;re working on that.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;With all due respect,
Vessel,&#8221; Tridees said. &#8220;There is some measure of
disagreement upon whether or not you actually are.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri blushed further, hair
reddening as she glanced away from those callous eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Such arguments, of
course, are limited to those inside the palace,&#8221; Tridees
said. &#8220;You can trust in the discretion of our staff and
priests.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;How do you know?&#8221;
Siri said, looking up. &#8220;I mean, about us. Maybe we
<i>are</i>. . .working on it.&#160; Maybe you&#8217;ll have your
heir before you know it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tridees blinked once, slowly,
regarding her like she were a ledger to be added up and
accounted.&#160; &#8220;Vessel,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Do you
honestly think that we would take an unfamiliar, foreign woman and
place her in close proximity to our most holy of gods without
keeping watch?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri felt her breath catch, and
she had a moment of horror. <i>Of course!</i> she thought. <i>Of
course they were watching. To make sure I didn&#8217;t hurt the God
King, to make certain things went according to plan.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Being naked before her husband
was bad enough. To be so exposed before men like Tridees--men who
saw her not as a woman, but as an annoyance--felt even worse,
somehow. She found herself slouching, arms wrapping around her
chest and its overly-exposed neckline.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Now,&#8221; Tridees
said, leaning in. &#8220;We understand that the God King may not be
what you expected. He may even be. . .difficult to work with. You
are a woman, however, and should know how to use your charms to
motivate.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;How can I
&#8216;motivate&#8217; if I can&#8217;t talk to him or look at
him?&#8221; she snapped.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m sure
you&#8217;ll find a way,&#8221; Tridees said. &#8220;You only have
one task in this palace. You want to make certain Idris is
protected? Well, give the God King&#8217;s priesthood what we
desire, and your rebels will earn our appreciation. My colleagues
and I have no small influence in the court, and we can do much to
safeguard your homeland.&#160; All we ask is that you perform this
single duty. Give us an heir. Give the kingdom stability. Not
everything in Hallandren is as. . .cohesive as it may appear to you
at first.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri remained slouched down,
not looking at Tridees.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I see that you
understand,&#8221; he said. &#8220;I feel that. . . .&#8221; he
trailed off, turning to the side. A procession was approaching
Siri&#8217;s pavilion. Its members wore gold and red, and a figure
at the front caused them to shine with vibrant color.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tridees frowned, then glanced
at her. &#8220;We will speak further, if it becomes necessary. Do
your duty, Vessel. Or there will be consequences.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;With that, the priest
withdrew.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She didn&#8217;t <i>look</i>
dangerous. That, more than anything else, made Lightsong inclined
to believe Blushweaver&#8217;s concerns. <i>I&#8217;ve been in the
court for far too long,</i> he thought to himself as he smiled
pleasantly to the queen. <i>All my life, actually.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She was a small thing, much
younger than he had expected. Barely a woman. She looked rather
intimidated as he nodded his head to her, waiting while his priests
arranged furniture for him. Then, he sat, accepting some grapes
from the queen&#8217;s serving women, even though he wasn&#8217;t
hungry.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your majesty,&#8221; he
said. &#8220;It is a pleasure to meet with you, I&#8217;m
sure.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The girl hesitated.&#160;
&#8220;You&#8217;re sure?&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Figure of speech my
dear,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;A rather redundant one--which
is quite appropriate, since <i>I</i> am a rather redundant
person.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The girl cocked her head
slightly. <i>Colors,</i> Lightsong thought, remembering that
she&#8217;d just finished with her period of isolation.
<i>I&#8217;m probably the only Returned that she&#8217;s met
besides the God King. Talk about a bad first impression.</i> Still,
there was nothing to be done about it. Lightsong was who he was.
Whoever that was.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m pleased to
make your acquaintance, your Grace,&#8221; the queen said slowly.
She turned as a serving woman whispered his name to her.
&#8220;Lightsong the Brave, Lord of Heroes,&#8221; she said,
smiling at him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;There was a hesitance about
her. Either she had not been trained for formal situations--witch
Lightsong found difficult to believe, since she&#8217;d been raised
in a palace--or she was a rather good actress. He frowned
inwardly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;On the outside, he simply gave
her his third most charming smile and popped a grape into his
mouth. &#8220;No need to be so formal, your majesty. You will soon
realize that among Returned, I am by far the least. If cows could
Return, they&#8217;d undoubtedly be higher ranked than
I.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She wavered again, obviously
uncertain how to deal with him. It was a common reaction.
&#8220;Might I inquire as to the nature of your visitation?&#8221;
she finally asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Too formal. Not at ease.
Uncomfortable around those high ranked. Could it be possible that
she <i>was</i> genuine? No. It was likely an act to put him at
ease. To make him underestimate her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Or was he just thinking about
things too hard?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Colors take you,
Blushweaver!</i> he thought. <i>I really don&#8217;t want to be
part of this.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He almost withdrew.&#160; But,
then, that wouldn&#8217;t be very pleasant of him--and contrary to
some of the things he said, Lightsong <i>did</i> like being
pleasant. <i>Best to be kind,</i> he thought, smiling idly to
himself. <i>That way, if she ever does take over the kingdom,
perhaps she&#8217;ll behead me last.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You ask after the nature
of my visitation?&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;I believe it has no
nature, your majesty, other than to be natural--at which nature I
have already failed by staring at you for far too long while
thinking to myself about your place in this mess.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The queen frowned again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong popped a grape in his
mouth. &#8220;Wonderful things,&#8221; he said, holding up another
one.&#160; &#8220;Delightfully sweet, wrapped in their own little
package. Deceptive, really.&#160; So rough and course on the
outside, but so delectable on the inside. Don&#8217;t you
think?&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We. . .don&#8217;t have
many grapes in Idris, your grace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m rather the
opposite, you know,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Fluffy and pretty on the
outside, without much of import on the inside. But I guess that is
beside the point, since it is about me--and anything about me is
always beside the point. You, my dear, are a very welcome sight.
Much more so than a grape.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I. . . . How is that,
your grace?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We haven&#8217;t had a
queen in such a long time,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;Since
before my Return, in fact. And, old Susebron up there really
<i>has</i> been moping about the palace lately.&#160; Looking
forlorn. It&#8217;s good he has a woman in his life.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Thank you for the
compliment, your Grace,&#8221; the queen said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You do seem a little
boring, however.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She fell silent.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Well, then, that&#8217;s
it,</i> he thought, sighing. <i>Blushweaver was right. I probably
shouldn&#8217;t have come.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;All right,&#8221; the
queen said, hair suddenly turning red as she threw her hands up in
the air. &#8220;<i>What</i> is going on here?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He hesitated. &#8220;Your
majesty?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Are you making fun of
me?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Probably.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But you&#8217;re
supposed to be a god!&#8221; she said, leaning back, staring up at
the canopy. &#8220;Just when I thought things in this city were
staring to make sense, the priests start yelling at me, <i>then</i>
you come along! What am I supposed to do with you?&#160; Banter?
You seem more like a schoolboy than you do a God!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong paused, then settled
back into his seat, smiling. &#8220;You have me found out,&#8221;
he said, opening his hands. &#8220;I killed the real god and took
his place. I&#8217;ve come to hold you ransom for your
sweets.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There,&#8221; the queen
said, pointing. &#8220;Aren&#8217;t you supposed to be. . .I
don&#8217;t know, distinguished or something?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He spread his hands out.
&#8220;My dear, this <i>is</i> what goes for being distinguished in
Hallandren.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She didn&#8217;t seem
convinced.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I am, of course, lying
through my teeth,&#8221; he said, eating another grape. &#8220;You
shouldn&#8217;t base your opinion of the others upon what you think
of me. They&#8217;re all much more deific than I am.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The queen sat back. &#8220;I
thought you were the god of bravery.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Technically.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You seem more like the
god of jesters to me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;ve applied for
the position and been turned down,&#8221; he said. &#8220;You
should see the person they have doing the job. Dull as a rock and
twice as ugly.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri paused.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I wasn&#8217;t lying
that time,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;Mirthgiver, God of
Laughter. If ever there was a God more poorly suited to his
position than I, it&#8217;s him.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t understand
you,&#8221; she said. &#8220;It appears there&#8217;s a <i>lot</i>
I don&#8217;t understand in this city.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>This woman is no fake,</i>
Lightsong thought, staring into her youthful, confused eyes. <i>Or,
if she is, then she&#8217;s far better an actress than any
I&#8217;ve ever met.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That meant something.&#160;
Something important. It was possible there were mundane reasons
this girl had been sent instead of her sister. Sickness on the part
of the elder daughter, perhaps. But Lightsong didn&#8217;t buy
that. She was part of something. A plot, or perhaps several. And
whatever those plots were, she didn&#8217;t know about
them.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Colors!</i> Lightsong
thought. <i>This child is going to get ripped apart and fed to the
wolves.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But what could he really do
about it? He sighed, standing, causing his priests to begin packing
his things. He had, by his own choice, little part in the politics
of court.&#160; If this child were ignorant of the plots she moved
amongst, then he was hardly any better.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The girl watched with confusion
as he nodded to her, giving her a wan smile of farewell. She stood
and curtseyed slightly, though she probably didn&#8217;t need to.
She was his queen, even if she wasn&#8217;t herself Returned.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong turned to go, then
stopped. He reached over, laying a hand on her shoulder.
&#8220;Don&#8217;t let them get to you, child,&#8221; he
whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And with that, he withdrew.</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Seventeen</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna walked quietly,
thoughtful, dissecting the argument she&#8217;d heard at the Court
of Gods. Which of the priests had made the best point? Those for
war, or those against? Her tutors had trained her that a discussion
in the Court was just that. Just because they discussed war
didn&#8217;t mean that there <i>would</i> be war.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;This discussion, however,
seemed to mean more to Vivenna. It seemed too passionate, with too
many voices for one side. It seemed to indicate that her father was
right, and that war was inevitable. Could she determine how long
Idris had by the way the priests had talked? Worries about this
consumed her as she made her way back to Lemk&#8217;s house.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She walked with her head down
on a mostly-empty street. She was beginning to learn that she could
avoid the masses by walking through more residential sections of
the city. It appeared that people in T&#8217;Telir liked to be
where everybody else was. Her path led her through an upscale
neighborhood. The homes were larger, and there was more space
between them. In Idris, each would have been considered a mansion,
but here they were only of modest size--probably the homes of
merchants.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The street had a cobbled
sidewalk running along the side of it, something else she&#8217;d
never seen back in Idris. It made for pleasant walking. Parlin
walked beside her, occasionally pausing to study ferns or palm
trees. The Hallandrens liked plants; most of the homes were shaded
by trees, vines, and exotic blooming shrubs.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I need to stay focused,</i>
she thought. <i>Is Hallandren are going to attack soon? Or is this
just a prelude to something still months and months away?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A discussion was just a
discussion--the real action would occur once the gods decided to
vote, but Vivenna wasn&#8217;t sure what it would take to get them
to that point. She shook her head. Only one day in T&#8217;Telir,
and already she knew that her training and tutorials hadn&#8217;t
prepared her half as well as she&#8217;d assumed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She felt as if she knew
nothing. And that left her feeling very lost. She was not the
proud, competent woman she&#8217;d assumed herself to be. The
frightening truth was, should she have been sent to become the God
King&#8217;s bride, she would have turned out to be nearly as
ineffective and confused as poor Siri undoubtedly was.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They turned a corner, Vivenna
trusting in Parlin&#8217;s amazing sense of direction to get them
back to Lemks&#8217; house, and they passed beneath the gaze of one
of the silent D&#8217;Denir statures. The proud warrior stood with
sword raised above his stone head, his armor--carved into the
statue--augmented by a red scarf tied and flapping around his neck.
He looked dramatic, as if he were going gloriously to war.&#160;
She thought she recognized the statue.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Indeed, it wasn&#8217;t long
before they approached the steps to Lemks&#8217; house. Vivenna
froze, however, when she saw that the door was handing from one
hinge. The lower portion of its wood was cracked, as if it had been
kicked very hard.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Parlin pulled up beside her,
then hissed, holding up a hand for her to be silent. His hand went
to the long hunting knife at his belt and he glanced around.
Vivenna stepped back, nerves itching to flee. And yet. . .where
would she go? The mercenaries were her only connection in the city.
Denth and Tonk Fah could have handled an attack, right?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Someone approached from the
other side of the door. Her BioChromatic senses warned her of the
proximity. She laid a hand on Parlin&#8217;s arm, preparing to
bolt.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth pushed the broken door
open, sticking his head out. &#8220;Oh,&#8221; he said.
&#8220;It&#8217;s you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What happened?&#8221;
she asked. &#8220;Were you attacked?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth glanced at the door and
chuckled to himself. &#8220;Nah,&#8221; he said, pushing the door
open and waving her in. Through the broken door she could see that
furniture had been ripped apart, there were holes in the walls, and
pictures were slashed and broken. Denth wandered back inside,
kicking aside some stuffing from a cushion, making his way toward
the stairs. Several of the steps had been broken.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He glanced back, noting her
confusion. &#8220;Well, we <i>did</i> say we were going to search
the house, princess. Figured we might as well do a good job of
it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna sat down very
carefully, half-expecting the chair to collapse beneath her. Tonk
Fah and Denth had been <i>very</i> thorough in their search--they
had broken every bit of wood in the house, it seemed, including
chair legs. Fortunately, her current chair had been propped up
reasonably well, and it held her weight.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The desk in front of
her--Lemks&#8217; desk--was splintered. The drawers had been
removed, and a false back had been revealed, the compartment
emptied. A group of papers and several bags sat on the desktop.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s
everything,&#8221; Denth said, leaning against the room&#8217;s
door frame. Tonk Fah lounged on a broken couch, its stuffing
sticking out at awkward angles.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Did you have to break so
much?&#8221; Vivenna asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Had to be
certain,&#8221; Denth said, shrugging. &#8220;You&#8217;d be
surprised where people hide things.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Inside the front
door?&#8221; Vivenna asked flatly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth just shrugged again.
&#8220;Would <i>you</i> have thought to look there?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course
not.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Sounds like a pretty
good hiding place to me, then.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;People get really clever
when it comes to hiding important stuff,&#8221; Tonk Fah said with
a yawn.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You know the thing I
hate most about being a mercenary?&#8221; Denth asked, holding up a
hand.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna raised an eyebrow.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Splinters,&#8221; he
said, wiggling several red fingers.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No hazard pay for
those,&#8221; Tonk Fah added.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, now you&#8217;re
just being silly,&#8221; Vivenna said, sorting through the items on
the table. One of the bags clinked suggestively. Vivenna undid the
drawstring and pulled open the top.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Gold glistened inside.&#160; A
lot of it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Little over five hundred
marks in there,&#8221; Denth said lazily. &#8220;Lemks had it
stashed all over the house. Found one bar of it in the leg of your
chair.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Got easier when we
discovered the paper he&#8217;d used to remind himself of where he
hid it,&#8221; Tonk Fah noted.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;<i>Five hundred
marks</i>?&#8221; Vivenna said, feeling her hair lighten slightly
in shock.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Seems like old Lemks was
storing up quite the little nest egg,&#8221; Denth said, chuckling.
&#8220;That, mixed with the amount of Breath he held. . .he must
have extorted even more from Idris than I assumed.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna stared at the bag.
Then, she looked up at Denth. &#8220;You. . .gave it to me,&#8221;
she said. &#8220;You could have taken it and spent it!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Actually, we did,&#8221;
Denth said. &#8220;Took about ten bits for lunch. Should be here
any minute.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna met his eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Now there&#8217;s what
I&#8217;m talking about, eh Tonks?&#8221; Denth said, glancing down
at the larger man. &#8220;If I&#8217;d been, say, a butler, would
she be looking at me like that? Just because I didn&#8217;t take
the money and run? Why does everyone expect a mercenary to rob
them?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tonk Fah grunted, stretching
again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Look through those
papers, princess,&#8221; Denth said, kicking Tonk Fah&#8217;s
couch, then nodding toward the door. &#8220;We&#8217;ll wait for
you downstairs.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna watched them retreat,
Tonk Fah grumbling as he had to rise, bits of stuffing sticking to
the back of his clothing. They thumped their way down the stairs,
and soon she heard dishes rattling. They&#8217;d likely sent one of
the street boys--who passed periodically yelling that they would
bring food from a local restaurant--for the meal.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna didn&#8217;t move for a
long moment. She was increasingly uncertain of her purpose in the
city. Yet she still had Denth and Tonk Fah, and--surprisingly--she
was finding herself growing attached to them after just a short
time. How many soldiers in her father&#8217;s army--good men, all
of them--would have been able to resist running off with five
hundred marks? There was more to these mercenaries than they
implied.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Eventually, she turned her
attention to the books, letters, and papers on the desk.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Several hours later, Vivenna
still sat alone, a solitary candle burning and dripping wax onto
the splintered desk corner. She had long since stopped reading. A
plate of food sat uneaten by the door, brought by Parlin some time
before.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Letters lay spread out on the
desk before her. It had taken time to put them in order. Most were
penned in her father&#8217;s familiar hand. Not the hand of her
father&#8217;s scribe.&#160; Her father&#8217;s <i>own</i> hand.
That had been her first clue. He only wrote his most personal, or
most secret, communications on his own.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna kept her hair under
control. She breathed in and out. She didn&#8217;t look out the
darkened window at the lights of a city that should have been
asleep. She simply sat.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Numb.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The final letter--last before
Lemks&#8217; death--sat on top of the pile. It was only a few weeks
old.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>My friend,</i> her
father&#8217;s scrawl read.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Our conversations have
worried me more than I care to admit. I have spoken with Yarda at
length. We can see no solution.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>War is coming. We all know
that now. The continued--and increasingly vigorous--arguments in
the Court of Gods show a disturbing trend. The money we sent to buy
you enough Breath to attend those meetings is some of the best I
have ever spent.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>All signs point to the
inevitability of Hallandren Lifeless marching to our mountains.
Therefore, I give you leave to do as we have discussed. Any
disruptions you can cause in the city--any delays you can earn
us--will be extremely valuable. The additional funds you requested
should have arrived by now.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>My friend, I must admit a
weakness in myself. I will never be able to send Vivenna to be a
hostage in that dragon&#8217;s nest of a city. To send her would be
to kill her, and I cannot do that. Even though I know it would be
best for Idris if I did.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I&#8217;m not yet sure what
I will do. I will not send her, for I love her too much. However,
breaking the treaty would bring the Hallandren wrath against my
people even more quickly. I fear I may have to make a very
difficult decision in the days to come.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>But that is the soul of a
king&#8217;s duty.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Until we correspond
again,</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Dedelin, your liege and your
friend.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna looked away from the
letter. The room&#8217;s silence seemed too perfect to her. She
wanted to scream at the letter and her father, who was now so far
away. And yet, she could not. She had been trained for better.
Tantrums were useless showings of arrogance.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Don&#8217;t draw attention to
yourself. Don&#8217;t set yourself above others. He who makes
himself high will be cast down low. But what of the man who murders
one of his daughters to save the other? What of the man who does
that, but claims--to your face--that it was for other reasons? That
it was for the good of Idris? That it wasn&#8217;t about favoritism
at all?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;What of the king who betrayed
the very most dear tenets of his religion by purchasing Breath for
one of his spies?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna blinked a tear in her
eye, then gritted her teeth, angry at herself and the world. Her
father was supposed to be a good man. The perfect king. Wise and
knowing, always sure of himself and always right in that
surety.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man she read in these
letters was far more human. Why should she be so shocked to hear
that?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>It doesn&#8217;t matter,</i>
she told herself, gritting her teeth. <i>None of that matters.</i>
Factions in the Hallandren government were rallying the nation for
war. Reading her father&#8217;s candid words, she finally believed
him completely. War was inevitable. &#160;Hallandren troops would
likely march on her homeland before the year was out. And then, the
Hallandren--so colorful yet so deceptive--would take Siri hostage
and threaten to kill her unless Dedelin surrendered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her father would not give up
his kingdom. Siri would be executed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>And</i> that <i>is what
I&#8217;m here to stop,</i> Vivenna thought. Her hands grew
tighter, gripping the wood of the desktop, jaw set. She brushed
away the traitorous tear. She had been trained to be strong when
surrounded by an unfamiliar city and people. She had work to
do.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She rose, leaving the letters
on the table with the bag of coins and Lemks&#8217; journal. She
made her way down the stairs, avoiding the broken steps, to where
the mercenaries were teaching Parlin how to play a game with wooden
cards. The three men looked up as Vivenna approached. She settled
herself carefully on the floor, sitting with her legs beneath her
in an unassuming posture.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She met their eyes as she
spoke. &#8220;I know where some of Lemks&#8217; money came
from,&#8221; she said. &#8220;Idris and Hallandren will soon go to
war. Because of this threat, my father gave much more support to
Lemks than I had assumed. He sent enough money for Lemks to buy
fifty Breaths, allowing him to enter and spy on court
proceedings.&#160; Obviously, my father didn&#8217;t know that
Lemks already <i>had</i> a sizable amount of Breath.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The three men were silent. Tonk
Fah shot a glance at Denth, who sat back, resting against an
overturned, broken chair.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I believe that Lemks was
still loyal to Idris,&#8221; she said. &#8220;His personal writings
make that relatively clear. He was not a traitor; he was simply
greedy. He wanted as much Breath as possible because he had heard
that it extended a person&#8217;s life.&#160; Lemks and my father
had planned to hinder the war preparations from inside Hallandren.
Lemks promised he would find a way to sabotage the Lifeless armies,
damage the city&#8217;s supplies, and generally undermine their
ability to wage war.&#160; For him to accomplish this, my father
sent him a large sum of money.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;About five hundred marks
worth?&#8221; Denth asked, rubbing his chin.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Less than that,&#8221;
Vivenna said. &#8220;But a large chunk nonetheless. I believe that
you are right about Lemks, Denth--he has been extorting the crown
for some time.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She fell silent. Parlin looked
confused. That wasn&#8217;t uncommon. The mercenaries, however,
didn&#8217;t look surprised.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t know if
Lemks intended to do as my father asked,&#8221; Vivenna said,
keeping her voice even. &#8220;The way he hid the money, some of
the things he wrote. . .well, maybe he was finally planning to turn
traitor and run. We can&#8217;t know what he would eventually have
decided. We do, however, have a vague list of things he planned to
accomplish. Those plans were convincing enough to persuade my
father, and the urgency of his letters have convinced me. We are
going to continue Lemks&#8217; work and undermine
Hallandren&#8217;s ability to wage war.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The room fell silent.&#160;
&#8220;And. . .your sister?&#8221; Parlin finally asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We will get her
out,&#8221; Vivenna said firmly. &#8220;Her rescue and safety is
our first priority.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That is all easier
discussed than accomplished, princess,&#8221; Denth said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I know.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The mercenaries shared a look.
&#8220;Well,&#8221; Denth finally said, standing up. &#8220;Better
get back to work, then.&#8221; He nodded at Tonk Fah, who sighed
and grumbled, standing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Wait,&#8221; Vivenna
said, frowning. &#8220;What?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I figured once you saw
those papers that you&#8217;d want to continue,&#8221; Denth said,
stretching. &#8220;Now that I&#8217;ve seen what he was up to, I
can piece together why he had us do some of the things we were
involved in. One of those things was contact and support for some
rebellious factions here in the city, including one that was
finally stamped out just a few weeks back. Cult of dissatisfaction
centered on a guy named Vahr.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Always wondered why
Lemks gave him support,&#8221; Tonk Fah said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That faction&#8217;s
dead,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;But a lot of its members are still
around. Waiting for trouble to come their way. We can contact them.
There are a few other leads I think we can look into, things Lemks
didn&#8217;t tell us about completely, but which I might be able to
sort through.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And. . .you can handle
something like this?&#8221; Vivenna asked. &#8220;You just said it
wouldn&#8217;t be easy.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth shrugged.
&#160;&#8220;Won&#8217;t be. But, we don&#8217;t ask questions. We
do what we&#8217;re told. If you haven&#8217;t figured it out yet,
this kind of thing is why Lemks hired us in the first place. Men
like him don&#8217;t ordinarily need a team of three high-priced,
specialist mercenaries. We&#8217;re not exactly the type of men you
keep around to serve you tea.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Unless you want the tea
rammed up someplace uncomfortable,&#8221; Tonk Fah noted.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Three mercenaries?</i>
Vivenna thought, pausing. <i>That&#8217;s right. There&#8217;s
another one. A woman.</i>&#160; &#8220;Where&#8217;s the other
member of your team?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Jewels?&#8221; Denth
asked.&#160; &#8220;You&#8217;ll meet her soon enough.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Unfortunately,&#8221;
Tonk Fah said under his breath.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth elbowed his friend.
&#8220;For now, let us go back out and see how things stand on our
projects. Gather what you want from this house. We&#8217;ll move
out tomorrow.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Move out?&#8221; Vivenna
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Unless you want to sleep
on a mattress Tonk Fah ripped into five pieces,&#8221; Denth noted.
&#8220;He has a thing about mattresses.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And chairs,&#8221; Tonk
Fah said cheerfully, &#8220;and tables, and doors, and walls,
actually. Oh, and people.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Either way,
princess,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;This building was well known to
people who worked with Lemks. As you&#8217;ve discovered, he
wasn&#8217;t exactly the most honest fellow around. I doubt you
want the baggage that comes with being associated with
him.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Best to move to another
house,&#8221; Tonk Fah agreed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We&#8217;ll try not to
break up the next one quite so badly,&#8221; Denth said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No promises
though,&#8221; Tonk Fah said with a wink.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And then the two
left.<br clear="all" style='page-break-before:always' /></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Eighteen</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri stood before the door to
her husband&#8217;s bed chambers, shuffling nervously. As usual,
Bluefingers stood beside her, and he was the only other one in the
hallway. He scribbled on his pad, giving no indication how he
always knew when it was time for her to enter.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;For once, she didn&#8217;t mind
the delay, nervous though she was. It gave her more time to think
about what she was going to do. The day&#8217;s events still buzzed
about in her head: Tridees, telling her that she needed to provide
an heir. Lightsong the Bold, talking in circles, then leaving her
with what had seemed like a heartfelt farewell. Her king and
husband, sitting on his tower above, bending light around him. The
priests below, arguing about whether or not to invade her
homeland.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A lot of people wanted to shove
her in different directions, yet none of them were really willing
to tell her how to do what they wanted--and some didn&#8217;t even
bother to tell her <i>what</i> they wanted. The only thing they
were succeeding at was making her annoyed. She was not a
seductress. She had no idea how to make the God King lust after
her--particularly since she was terrified of him doing just that.
She didn&#8217;t know what people needed of her, and she
didn&#8217;t particularly want to do what she was told.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;High Priest Tridees had given
her a command. Therefore, she intended to show him how she
responded to commands, particularly when they had threats attached
to them. Tonight, she would go into the king&#8217;s bed chamber,
sit down on the floor, and refuse to strip. She&#8217;d confront
the God King. He didn&#8217;t want her. Well, she was tired of
being ogled every night.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She intended to explain this
all to him in no uncertain terms. If he wanted to see her naked,
he&#8217;d have to order servants to force her clothing off. She
doubted that he&#8217;d do that. He&#8217;d made no move toward
her. Even during his reign over the court proceedings, he
hadn&#8217;t done more than sit and watch.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She was getting a new image in
her head of this king. He was a man with so much power, he had
grown lazy. He was a man who had everything, and so he bothered
with nothing. He was a man who liked others to do everything for
him. People like him annoyed her. She had known a guard captain in
Idris who had insisted making his men work hard, but who had spent
his afternoons playing cards.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was time the God King was
defied. More than that, it was time that his priests learned that
they couldn&#8217;t bully her. She was tired of being used.
Tonight, she would react. That was her decision. And it made her
nervous as all Colors.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She glanced at Bluefingers.
Eventually, she caught his eye. &#8220;Do they really watch me each
night?&#8221; she asked, leaning in and whispering.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He paused, paling slightly.
Then, he glanced to either side, then shook his head.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She frowned. <i>But, Tridees
knew that I hadn&#8217;t been bedded by the God King.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers raised a finger,
pointing to his eyes, then shook his head. Then he pointed to his
ears and nodded. He pointed to a doorway down the hall.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>They listen,</i> Siri
thought.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers leaned in closer.
&#8220;They would never watch, Vessel,&#8221; he whispered.
&#8220;Remember, the God King is their most holy of deities. Seeing
him in his nudity, watching him with his wife. . .no, they
wouldn&#8217;t dare. However, they aren&#8217;t above
<i>listening</i>.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She nodded. &#8220;They are
very concerned about an heir.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers glanced about
nervously.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Am I really in danger
from them?&#8221; she asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He met her eyes, then nodded
sharply. &#8220;More danger than you know, Vessel.&#8221;
&#160;Then, he backed away, gesturing at the doorway.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You have to help me!</i> she
mouthed at him.<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shook his head, holding up
his hands. <i>I cannot. Not now.</i>&#160; With that, he pushed
open the door, bowed, and scuttled away, glancing nervously over
his shoulder.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri glared at him.&#160; The
time was swiftly approaching when she&#8217;d need to corner him
and find out what he really knew. Until then, she had other people
to annoy. She turned and glanced into the dark room. Her nerves
started up again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Is this wise?</i>
&#160;Being belligerent had never bothered her before. And yet. .
.her life wasn&#8217;t like it had been before. Bluefinger&#8217;s
fear had left her even more on edge.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Defiance. It had always been
her way to gain attention. She hadn&#8217;t been obstinate out of
spite, not usually. She&#8217;d simply been unable to measure up to
Vivenna, so she&#8217;d just done the opposite of what was
expected. Her defiance had worked in the past.&#160; Or had it? Her
father had been perpetually angry at her, and Vivenna had always
treated her as a child. The city&#8217;s people had loved her, but
their love had seemed suffering.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>No,</i> Siri thought
suddenly. <i>No, I can&#8217;t go back to that. The people in this
palace--this court--they aren&#8217;t the types you defy just
because you&#8217;re annoyed.</i> Spurn the palace priests, and
they wouldn&#8217;t grumble at her like her father had.&#160;
They&#8217;d show her what it really meant to be in their
power.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But what to do then?&#160; She
couldn&#8217;t keep throwing off her clothing and kneeling on the
floor, naked, could she?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Feeling confused, and a little
angry at herself, she stepped into the dark room, then pulled the
door closed. The God King waited in his corner, shadowed as always.
Siri looked at him, staring at that too-calm face. She knew that
she should disrobe and kneel, but she didn&#8217;t.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Not because she felt defiant.
Not even because she felt angry or petulant. Because she was tired
of wondering. Who was this man who could rule gods and bend light
with the force of his BioChroma? Was he really just a spoiled
indolent?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He stared back at her.&#160;
Like before, he didn&#8217;t grow angry at her insolence. Watching
him, Siri pulled at the strings on her dress, dropping the bulky
garment to the floor. She reached for the shoulders of her shift,
but hesitated.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>No,</i> she thought. <i>This
isn&#8217;t right either.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She glanced down at the shift;
the edges of the white garment fuzzed, the white bending into
color.&#160; She looked up at the God King&#8217;s impassive
face.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Then--gritting her teeth
against her nervousness--Siri took a step forward.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He tensed. She could see it in
the edges of his eyes and around his lips. She took another step
forward, the white of her garment bending further into prismatic
colors. The God King didn&#8217;t do anything. He just watched as
she drew closer and closer.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She stopped right in front of
him. Then she turned from him and climbed up onto the bed, feeling
the deep softness beneath her as she crawled to the middle of its
mattress.&#160; She sat up on her knees, regarding the black marble
wall with its obsidian sheen. The God King&#8217;s priest waited
just beyond, listening carefully to hear things that were really
none of their business.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>This,</i> she thought,
taking a deep breath, <i>is going to be exceptionally
embarrassing.</i>&#160; But she&#8217;d been forced to lay
prostrate, naked, before the God King for over a week. Was now
really the time to start feeling self-conscious?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She began to bounce up and down
on the bed, making its springs creak. Then, cringing slightly, she
started to moan.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She hoped it was convincing.
She didn&#8217;t really know what it was supposed to sound like.
And how long did it usually continue? So, she tried to make her
moans get louder and louder, her bouncing more furious, for what
she assumed was a proper amount of time. Then, she stopped sharply,
let out a final moan, and fell back onto the bed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;All was still. She glanced up,
eying the God King. Some of his emotional mask had softened, and he
displayed a very human look of confusion. She almost laughed out
loud at how perplexed he seemed. She just met his eyes and shook
her head. Then--her heart beating, her skin a bit sweaty--she
rested back on the bed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It wasn&#8217;t long after
that--tired of the day&#8217;s events and intrigues--she found
herself rolled up in the luxurious comforter and dozing soundly.
The God King left her alone, and as she drifted off, she considered
something.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He&#8217;d grown tense at her
approach, almost as if he were worried. Frightened of her. That
couldn&#8217;t be.&#160; He was the God and King of Hallandren, and
she was just a silly girl, swimming in water that was far over her
head.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;No, he wasn&#8217;t frightened.
The concept was enough to again make her feel like laughing. She
kept it in, maintaining the illusion for the listening priests as
she drifted off in the comfort of the bed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The next morning, Lightsong did
not get out of bed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;His servants stood around the
perimeter of his room like a flock of birds waiting for seed. As
noon approached, they began to shuffle uncomfortably, shooting
glances at one another.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He remained in bed, staring up
at the ornate red canopy. Some servants approached tentatively,
placing a tray of food atop a pedestal beside him. Lightsong did
not reach for it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Finally, a figure approached.
Large of girth and draped in his priestly robes, Llarimar looked
down at his God, betraying none of the annoyance that Lightsong was
sure that he felt.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Leave us, please,&#8221;
Llarimar said to the servants.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They hesitated, uncertain. When
was a god without his servants?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Please,&#8221; Llarimar
repeated, though somehow his tone indicated that it was not a
request. Slowly, the servants filed from the room. Llarimar moved
the tray of food, then sat down on the stool. He studied Lightsong,
expression thoughtful.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>What did I ever do to earn a
priest like him?</i> Lightsong thought. He knew many of the high
priests of other Returned, and most of them were various levels of
insufferable.&#160; Some were easy to bring to anger, others quick
to point out fault, and still others were so effusive toward their
gods that it was downright maddening.&#160; Tridees, the God
King&#8217;s own high priest, was so stuck up that he made even
<i>gods</i> feel inferior.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And then there was Llarimar.
Patient, understanding. He deserved a better god.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;All right, your
grace,&#8221; Llarimar said. &#8220;What is it this
time?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m sick,&#8221;
Lightsong said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You can&#8217;t get
sick, your grace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong gave a few weak
coughs, to which Llarimar just rolled his eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh come on,
Scoot,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;Can&#8217;t you just play
along a little bit?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Play along that you are
sick?&#8221; Llarimar asked, showing a hint of amusement.
&#8220;Your grace, to do that would be to pretend that you&#8217;re
not a god. I do not believe that&#8217;s a good precedent for your
high priest to set.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s the
truth,&#8221; Lightsong whispered. &#8220;I&#8217;m no
god.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Again, there was no sign of
annoyance or anger from Llarimar. He just leaned down.
&#8220;Please don&#8217;t say such things, your grace. Even if you
yourself do not believe, you should not say so.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why not?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Because there are many
who <i>do</i> believe.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And I should continue to
deceive them?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar shook his head.
&#8220;It is no deception. It&#8217;s not so uncommon for others to
have more faith in a man than he has in himself.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And that doesn&#8217;t
strike you as a little odd in my case?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar smiled. &#8220;Not
knowing your temperament, it doesn&#8217;t. Now, what brought this
on?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong turned, looking up at
the ceiling again. &#8220;Blushweaver wants my Commands for the
Lifeless.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;She&#8217;ll destroy
that new queen of ours,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;Blushweaver
worries that the Idris Royals are making a play for the Hallandren
throne.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Do you
disagree?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong shook his head.
&#8220;No. They probably are. But the thing is, I don&#8217;t think
the girl--the queen--knows that she&#8217;s part of anything.
I&#8217;m worried that Blushweaver will crush the child out of
fear.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It seems that you have a
remarkably good handle on this all, your grace,&#8221; Llarimar
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t want to be
part of it, Scoot,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;I feel myself
getting sucked in.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You are a political
being, your grace,&#8221; Llarimar said. &#8220;It is your duty to
be involved in these things so that you can lead your kingdom. You
can&#8217;t avoid politics.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I can avoid it if I
don&#8217;t get out of bed.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar raised an eyebrow.
&#8220;You don&#8217;t honestly believe that, do you your
grace?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong sighed.&#160;
&#8220;You&#8217;re not going to give me a lecture about how even
my inaction affects politics, are you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar hesitated.&#160;
&#8220;Perhaps. You are a part of the workings of this kingdom--and
you produce effects even if you stay in bed. If you do nothing,
then the problems are as much your fault as if you had caused
them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; Lightsong
said.&#160; &#8220;No, I think you&#8217;re wrong. If I don&#8217;t
do anything, then at least I can&#8217;t ruin things. Sure, I can
<i>let</i> them go wrong, but that&#8217;s not the same
thing.&#160; It really isn&#8217;t, no matter what people
say.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And if, by acting, you
could make things better?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong shook his head.
&#8220;Not going to happen. You know me better than
that.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I do, your grace,&#8221;
Llarimar said. &#8220;I know you better, perhaps, than you think I
do. You&#8217;ve always been one of the best men I have ever
known.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong rolled his eyes, but
then stopped, noting the expression on Llarimar&#8217;s face.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Best men I have ever known.
. . .</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong sat up. &#8220;You
knew me!&#8221; he accused. &#8220;<i>That&#8217;s</i> why you
chose to be my priest. You did know me before! Before I
died!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar said nothing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Who was I?&#8221;
Lightsong asked. &#8220;A good man, you claim. What was it about me
that made me a good man?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I can say nothing, your
grace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;ve already
said something,&#8221; Lightsong said, raising a finger. &#8220;You
might as well go on. No turning back.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;ve said too much
already.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Come on,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;Just a little bit. Was I from T&#8217;Telir,
then? How did I die?&#8221; <i>Who is she, the woman I see in my
dreams?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar said nothing
further.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I could command you, as
your god, to speak. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No you
couldn&#8217;t,&#8221; Llarimar said, smiling as he stood up.
&#8220;It&#8217;s like the rain, your grace. You can <i>say</i> you
want to command the weather change, but you don&#8217;t believe it,
deep down. It doesn&#8217;t obey, and neither would I.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Convenient bit of theology,
that,</i> Lightsong thought. <i>Particularly when you want to hide
things from your gods.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar turned to go.&#160;
&#8220;You have paintings waiting to be judged, your grace. I
suggest that you let your servants bathe and dress you so that you
can get through the day&#8217;s work.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong sighed, stretching.
<i>How exactly did he just do that to me?</i> he thought.&#160;
Llarimar hadn&#8217;t really even revealed anything, yet Lightsong
had overcome his bout of melancholy. He eyed Llarimar as the man
reached the door and waved for the servants to return. Perhaps
dealing with sullen deities was part of his job description.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>But. . .he knew me
before,</i> Lightsong thought. <i>And now he&#8217;s my priest. How
did that happen?</i> &#8220;Scoot,&#8221; Lightsong said, drawing
the priest&#8217;s attention. Llarimar turned, guarded, obviously
expecting Lightsong to pry further into his past.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What should I do?&#8221;
Lightsong asked. &#8220;About Blushweaver and the queen?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I cannot tell you, your
grace,&#8221; Llarimar said. &#8220;You see, it is by what
<i>you</i> do that we learn. If I guide you, then we gain
nothing.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Except perhaps the life
of a young girl who is being used as a pawn.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar paused. &#8220;Do your
best, your grace,&#8221; he said. &#8220;That is all I can
suggest.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Great,</i> Lightsong thought
as he stood. He didn&#8217;t really know what his
&#8216;best&#8217; was.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The truth was, he&#8217;d never
bothered to find out.</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Nineteen</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;This is nice,&#8221;
Denth said, looking over the house. &#8220;Strong wood paneling.
Will break very cleanly.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yeah,&#8221; Tonk Fah
added, peeking into a closet. &#8220;And it has good shelf space.
Bet we could fit a good half-dozen bodies in here alone.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna shot the two
mercenaries a flat look, causing them to chuckle to themselves. The
house wasn&#8217;t as nice as Lemks&#8217; had been; she
didn&#8217;t want to be ostentatious. It was one of many that were
built in a row along a well-maintained street. More long than it
was wide, the building was fenced on either side with large palm
trees, obscuring the view should someone try to spy from the
neighboring buildings.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She was pleased. A piece of her
worried at living in a home that was--despite being relatively
modest by Hallandren standards--nearly as large as the king&#8217;s
palace back in Idris. However, she and Parlin had looked in cheaper
sections of town. She didn&#8217;t want to live in a place where
she was afraid to go out at night, particularly since she worried
that her Breath might make her a target.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She trailed down the stairs,
the mercenaries following. The home had three stories--a small
upper story with sleeping chambers, the main story with a kitchen
and sitting room, and a cellar for storage. The entire building was
sparsely furnished, though Parlin had gone to the market to
investigate furnishings. She hadn&#8217;t wanted to spend money on
them, but Denth had pointed out that if they didn&#8217;t at least
<i>try</i> to keep up appearances, they could end up drawing even
more attention.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Old Lemks&#8217;s body
will soon be taken care of soon,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;We left
some hints in the underground, mentioning that the old man was
dead. Whatever we didn&#8217;t ransack, a gang of burglars will
take care of tonight. By tomorrow, the city watch will be there,
and they&#8217;ll take care of the corpse.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna stopped at the bottom
of the stairs, paling. &#8220;That doesn&#8217;t sound very. .
.respectful.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth shrugged. &#8220;What do
you want to do? Go turn him in at the charnel house
yourself?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Good way to get people
asking questions, that,&#8221; Tonk Fah said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Better to just let
others deal with it,&#8221; Denth said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I suppose,&#8221;
Vivenna said, turning away from the stairs and walking into the
sitting room. &#8220;It just sets me a little on edge, letting his
body be cared for by. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;By what?&#8221; Denth
said, amused. &#8220;Heathens?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna didn&#8217;t look at
him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The old man didn&#8217;t
seem to care much about heathen ways,&#8221; Tonk Fah noted.
&#8220;Not with the number of Breaths he held. Of course,
didn&#8217;t your daddy give him the money to buy them?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna closed her eyes.
&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You hold those same
Breaths,</i> she told herself. <i>You&#8217;re not innocent in all
of this.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She hadn&#8217;t been given a
choice. She could only hope and assume that her father had felt he
was in a similar position--no choice but to do what seemed wrong.
Either way, she was finding it harder and harder to look at things
in the black and white ways she&#8217;d been taught. Those blasted
colors kept working their way in.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lacking furniture, Vivenna
arranged her dress and knelt on the wooden floor, hands in her
lap.&#160; Denth and Tonk Fah sat back against the wall, looking
just as comfortable sitting on hardwood as they were when lounging
in plush chairs. &#8220;All right, princess,&#8221; Denth said,
folding a paper out of his pocket. &#8220;We&#8217;ve got some
plans for you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Please continue,
then.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;First,&#8221; Denth
said, &#8220;we can get you a meeting with some of Vahr&#8217;s
allies.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Who exactly was this
man?&#8221; Vivenna said, frowning. For some reason, she
didn&#8217;t like the idea of working with revolutionaries.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Vahr was a worker in the
dye fields,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;Things can get bad out in
those fields--long hours, little more than food for pay. About five
years back, Vahr got the bright idea that if he could convince
enough of the other workers to give him their Breath, he might be
able to use the power to start a revolt against the overseers.
Became something of a hero to the people in the outer flower
plantations to the point that he actually drew the attention of the
Court of Gods.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Never really had a
chance of starting a real rebellion,&#8221; Tonk Fah said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So what good are they to
us?&#8221; Vivenna asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well,&#8221; Denth said,
&#8220;you didn&#8217;t say anything about a rebellion or anything
like that. You just want to make it tough for the Hallandrens when
they go to war.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Revolts in the fields
would sure be a pain during war,&#8221; Tonk Fah added.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna nodded.
&#8220;All right,&#8221; she said. &#8220;Let&#8217;s meet with
them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Just so you know,
Princess,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;These aren&#8217;t
particularly. . .upscale kinds of folks.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I am not offended by
poverty or people of small means. Austre regards all people
equally.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I didn&#8217;t mean
that,&#8221; Denth said, rubbing his chin. &#8220;It&#8217;s not
that they&#8217;re peasants, it&#8217;s that. . .well, when
Vahr&#8217;s little insurrection went bad, these are the people who
were smart enough to get out quickly. That means they weren&#8217;t
all that committed to him in the first place.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;In other words,&#8221;
Tonk Fah said, &#8220;they were really just a bunch of thugs and
crime lords who thought Vahr might be the source of some easy
influence or money.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Great,</i> Vivenna thought.
&#8220;And. . .do we want to associate with people like
that?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth shrugged. &#8220;We have
to start somewhere.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The other things on the
list are a bit more fun,&#8221; Tonk Fah said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And they are?&#8221;
Vivenna asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Raid the Lifeless
storage warehouse, for one,&#8221; Denth said, smiling. &#8220;We
won&#8217;t be able to kill the things--not without drawing the
rest of them down on us. But, we might be able to muck up the way
the creatures work.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That sounds a little
dangerous,&#8221; Vivenna said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth glanced at Tonk Fah, who
opened his eyes. They shared a smile.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221; Vivenna
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Hazard pay,&#8221; Tonk
Fah said. &#8220;We may not steal your money, but we have nothing
against overcharging you for extremely dangerous stunts!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Great</i>, Vivenna
thought.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Beyond that,&#8221;
Denth added, &#8220;from what I can tell, Lemks wanted to undermine
the food supply situation in the city. It&#8217;s a good idea, I
suppose. Lifeless don&#8217;t need to eat, but the humans who form
the support structure of the army <i>do</i>.&#160; Disrupt supply,
and perhaps people here will begin to worry if they can afford a
long-term war.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That sounds more
reasonable,&#8221; Vivenna said. &#8220;What did you come up
with?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We raid merchant
caravans,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;Burn things up, cost them a
bunch. &#160;&#160;We make it look like bandits or maybe even
remnants of Vahr&#8217;s supporters. That ought to confuse people
in T&#8217;Telir and maybe make it more difficult for the priests
to go to war.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Priests run a lot of the
trade in the city,&#8221; Tonk Fah added. &#8220;They have all the
money so they tend to own the supplies. Burn away the stuff they
intended to use for the war, and they&#8217;ll be more hesitant to
attack. It&#8217;ll buy your people more time.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna swallowed. &#8220;Your
plans are a bit more. . .violent than I had anticipated.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The mercenaries shared a
look.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You see,&#8221; Denth
said.&#160; &#8220;This is where we get our bad reputation. People
hire us to do difficult things--like undermine a country&#8217;s
ability to wage war--then complain that we&#8217;re too
violent.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Very unfair,&#8221; Tonk
Fah agreed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Perhaps she&#8217;d
rather we buy puppies for all of her enemies, then send them with
nice apologetic notes, asking them to stop being so
mean.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And then,&#8221; Tonk
Fah said, &#8220;when they <i>don&#8217;t</i> stop, we could kill
the puppies!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;All right,&#8221;
Vivenna said. &#8220;I understand that we&#8217;ll have to us a
firm hand, but. . . .really. I don&#8217;t want the Hallandrens to
starve because of what we do.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Princess,&#8221; Denth
said, sounding more serious. &#8220;These people want to attack
your homeland. They see your family as the greatest existing threat
to their power--and they&#8217;re going to make certain that nobody
of the Royal blood lives to challenge them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They get a child by your
sister to be the next God King,&#8221; Tonk Fah said, &#8220;then
they kill every other person of Royal blood. They never have to
worry about you again.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth nodded. &#8220;Your
father and Lemks were right. The Hallandren have <i>everything</i>
to lose by not attacking you. And, from I can see, your people are
going to need every bit of help you can give them. That means doing
everything we can--scaring the priests, breaking their supply
reserves, weakening their armies--to help out.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We can&#8217;t stop the
war,&#8221; Tonk Fah added. &#8220;We can just make the fight a
little more fair.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna took a deep breath,
then nodded. &#8220;All right, then, we&#8217;ll--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;At that moment, the door to the
building flew open, slamming against the other side of the
wall.&#160; Vivenna looked up. A figure stood in the doorway--a
tall, bulky man with unusually large muscles and flat features. It
took her a moment to register the other oddity about him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;His skin was grey. His eyes
too. There was no color to him at all, and her Heightenings told
her that he didn&#8217;t have a single Breath. A Lifeless
soldier.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna scrambled to her feet,
barely keeping in a cry of distress. She backed away from the large
soldier. It just stood there, immobile, not even breathing. Its
eyes tracked her--they didn&#8217;t just stare ahead, like those of
a dead man.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;For some reason, she found that
the most unnerving.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Denth!&#8221; Vivenna
said.&#160; &#8220;What are you doing? Attack!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The mercenaries remained where
they were, lounging on the floor. Tonk Fah barely cracked an eye
open. &#8220;Ah well,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;Looks like
we&#8217;ve been discovered by the city watch.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Pity,&#8221; Tonk Fah
said.&#160; &#8220;This was looking like it would be a fun
job.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Nothing but execution
for us now,&#8221; Denth said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Attack!&#8221; Vivenna
cried. &#8220;You&#8217;re my bodyguards, you&#8217;re. . .
.&#8221; She trailed off, noticing as the two men began to
chuckle.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Oh, Colors, not again,</i>
she thought. &#8220;What?&#8221; she said. &#8220;Some kind of
joke? Did you paint that man grey? What&#8217;s going
on?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Move it, you rock on
legs,&#8221; a voice said from behind the Lifeless. The creature
walked into the room, carrying a couple of canvas bags over its
shoulders. As it entered, it revealed a shorter woman standing
behind. Thick through the thighs and through the bust, she had
light brown hair that came down to her shoulders. She stood with
hands on hips, looking upset.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Denth,&#8221; she
snapped, &#8220;he&#8217;s here. In the city.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Good,&#8221; Denth said,
lounging back. &#8220;I owe that man a sword through the
gut.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The woman snorted. &#8220;He
killed Arsteel. What makes you think you can beat him?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;ve always been
the better swordsman,&#8221; Denth said calmly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Arsteel was good
too.&#160; Now he&#8217;s dead. Who&#8217;s the woman?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;New employer.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Hope she lives longer
than the last one,&#8221; the woman grumbled. &#8220;Clod, put
those down and go get the other bag.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The Lifeless responded, setting
down his bags then walking back out. Vivenna watched, by now having
figured out that the short woman must be Jewels, the third member
of Denth&#8217;s team. What was she doing with a Lifeless?<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What&#8217;s wrong with
you?&#8221; Jewels said, glancing at Vivenna. &#8220;Some Awakener
come by and steal your colors?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna paused.&#160;
&#8220;What?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;She means,&#8221; Denth
said, &#8220;why do you look so surprised?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That, and her hair is
white,&#8221; Jewels said, walking over to the canvas bags.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna flushed, realizing that
her shock had gotten the better of her. She returned her hair to
its proper dark color. The Lifeless was returning, carrying another
bag.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Where did that creature
come from?&#8221; Vivenna asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221; Jewels
asked.&#160; &#8220;Clod? Made him from a dead body, obviously. I
didn&#8217;t do it myself--I just paid money for someone else
to.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Too much money,&#8221;
Tonk Fah added.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The creature clomped back into
the room. He wasn&#8217;t unnaturally tall--not like a Returned. He
could have been a normal, if well muscled, man. Only the skin
coloring, mixed with the emotionless face, was different.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;She bought him?&#8221;
Vivenna asked. &#8220;When? Just now?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Nah,&#8221; Tonk Fah
said, &#8220;we&#8217;ve had Clod for months.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s useful to
have a Lifeless around,&#8221; Denth said.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And you didn&#8217;t
tell me about this?&#8221; Vivenna asked, trying to keep the
hysteria out of her voice.&#160; First she&#8217;d had to deal with
the city and all of its colors and people. Then she was given a
batch of unwanted Breath. Now she was confronted by the most unholy
of abominations.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The topic didn&#8217;t
come up,&#8221; Denth said, shrugging. &#8220;They&#8217;re pretty
common in T&#8217;Telir.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We were just talking
about defeating these things,&#8221; Vivenna said. &#8220;Not
embracing them!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We talked about
defeating <i>some</i> of them,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;Princess,
Lifeless are like swords. They&#8217;re tools. We can&#8217;t
destroy <i>all</i> of them in the city, nor would we want to. Just
the ones being used by your enemies.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna slid down, sitting on
the wooden floor. The Lifeless set down its final bag, then Jewels
pointed toward the corner. It walked over and stood there,
patiently waiting for further orders.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Here,&#8221; Jewels said
to the other two, unzipping the final bag. &#8220;You wanted
these.&#8221; She turned it on its side, exposing glittering metal
shining within.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth smiled, rising.&#160; He
kicked Tonk Fah back awake--the large man had an uncanny ability to
fall asleep at a moment&#8217;s notice--and walked over to the bag.
He pulled out several swords, shiny and new-looking with long, thin
blades. Denth made a few practice swings while Tonk Fah wandered
over, pulling out wicked-looking daggers, some shorter swords, and
then some leather jerkins.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna sat, back against the
wall, using her breathing to calm herself. She tried not to feel
threatened by the Lifeless in the corner. How could they just go
about, ignoring it like that? It was so unnatural that it made her
itch and squirm. Eventually, Denth noticed her. He told Tonk Fah to
oil the blades, then walked over and sat down in front of Vivenna,
leaning back with hands against the floor behind him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That Lifeless is going
to be a problem, princess?&#8221; he asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; she said
curtly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then we&#8217;ll need to
work it out,&#8221; he said, meeting her eyes. &#8220;My team
can&#8217;t function if you try to tie our hands. Jewels has
invested a lot of effort into learning the proper Commands to use a
Lifeless, not to mention learning to maintain the thing.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We don&#8217;t need
her.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; Denth
said.&#160; &#8220;Yes we <i>do</i>. Princess, you&#8217;ve brought
a lot of biases into this city.&#160; It&#8217;s not my place to
tell you what to do with them. I&#8217;m just your employee. A
mercenary. But I will tell you that you don&#8217;t know half the
things you think you do.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s not about
what I &#8216;think I know&#8217; Denth,&#8221; Vivenna said.
&#8220;It&#8217;s what I <i>believe</i>. A person&#8217;s body
shouldn&#8217;t be abused by making it come back to life and serve
you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why not?&#8221; he
asked.&#160; &#8220;Your own theology says a soul leaves when the
body dies. The corpse is just dirt, recycled. Why not use
it?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s wrong,&#8221;
Vivenna said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The family of the corpse
was well paid for the body.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Doesn&#8217;t
matter,&#8221; Vivenna said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth leaned forward.&#160;
&#8220;Well, fine then. But if you order Jewels away, you order us
all away. I&#8217;ll give your money back, then we&#8217;ll go hire
you another team of bodyguards. You can use them
instead.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I thought you were my
employee,&#8221; Vivenna snapped.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I am,&#8221; Denth
said.&#160; &#8220;But I can quit whenever I want.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She sat quietly, stomach
unsettled.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your father was willing
to use means that he didn&#8217;t agree with,&#8221; Denth said.
&#8220;Judge him if you must, but tell me this. If using a Lifeless
saves your kingdom, who are you to ignore the
opportunity?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why do you care?&#8221;
Vivenna asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth shrugged. &#8220;I just
don&#8217;t like to leave things unfinished.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna glanced away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Look at it this way,
Princess,&#8221; he said. &#8220;You can work with us--which will
give you chances to explain your views, maybe change our minds on
things like Lifeless and BioChroma. Or you can send us away. But if
you reject us because of our sins, aren&#8217;t you acting
ostentatious? Don&#8217;t the Five Visions say something about
that?&#8221;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna frowned. <i>How does he
know so much about Austrism?</i> &#8220;I&#8217;ll think about
it,&#8221; she said.&#160; &#8220;Why did Jewels bring all those
swords?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We&#8217;ll need
weapons,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;You know, has to do with that
violence thing we mentioned earlier.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You don&#8217;t have any
already?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth shrugged. &#8220;Tonk
usually has a cudgel or knife on him, but a full sword draws
attention in T&#8217;Telir.&#160; It&#8217;s best not to stand out,
sometimes. Your people have some interesting wisdom in that
area.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But now. . .
.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Now we don&#8217;t
really have a choice,&#8221; he said. &#8220;If we keep moving on
with Lemks&#8217; plans, things are going to get dangerous.&#8221;
He eyed her. &#8220;Which reminds me. I have something else for you
to think about.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Those Breaths you
hold,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;They&#8217;re a tool. Just like the
Lifeless. Now, I know you don&#8217;t agree with how they were
obtained. The fact is, you have them. If a dozen slaves die to
forge a sword, does it do any good to melt down the sword and
refuse to use it? Or is it better to use that sword and try to stop
the men who did such evil in the first place?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What are you
saying?&#8221; Vivenna said, feeling that she probably already
knew.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You should learn to use
the Breaths,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;Tonks and I could sure use
an Awakener backing us up.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna closed her eyes. Did he
have to hit her with that now, right after twisting around her
concerns about the Lifeless? She had expected to find uncertainties
and obstacles T&#8217;Telir. She just hadn&#8217;t expected so many
difficult decisions. And she hadn&#8217;t expected them to endanger
her soul.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m not going to
become an Awakener, Denth,&#8221; Vivenna said quietly. &#8220;I
might turn a blind eye toward that Lifeless, for now. But I will
<i>not</i> Awaken. I expect to take these Breaths to my death so
that nobody else can benefit from harvesting them. No matter what
you say, if you buy that sword forged by overworked slaves, then
you&#8217;ll just encourage the merchants.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth fell silent.&#160; Then,
he nodded, standing. &#8220;You&#8217;re the boss, and it&#8217;s
your kingdom. If we fail, the only thing <i>I</i> lose is an
employer.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Denth,&#8221; Jewels
said, approaching. She barely gave Vivenna a glance. &#160;&#8220;I
don&#8217;t like this. I don&#8217;t like the fact that <i>he</i>
got here first. He has Breath--reports say he looked to have
reached at least the Fourth Heightening. Maybe the Fifth.
I&#8217;ll bet he got it from that rebel, Vahr.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;How do you know
it&#8217;s even him?&#8221; Denth asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Jewels snorted.
&#8220;Word&#8217;s all over. People being found slaughtered in
alleyways, the wounds corrupt and black. Sightings of a new,
powerful Awakener roaming the city carrying a black-handled sword
in a silver sheath. It&#8217;s Tax, all right. Goes by a different
name now.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth nodded.&#160;
&#8220;Vasher. He&#8217;s used it for a while. It&#8217;s a joke on
his part.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna frowned. <i>Black
handled sword. Silver sheath.</i> &#8220;Who are we talking
about?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Jewels shot her an annoyed
look, but Denth just shrugged. &#8220;Old. . .friend of
ours.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He&#8217;s bad
trouble,&#8221; Tonk Fah said, walking up. &#8220;Tax tends to
leave a lot of bodies wherever he goes. Has strange
motivations--doesn&#8217;t think like other people.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He&#8217;s interested in
the war for some reason, Denth,&#8221; Jewels said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Let him be,&#8221; Denth
snapped. &#8220;That will just bring him across my path all the
more quickly.&#8221; He turned away, waving a hand indifferently.
Vivenna watched him go, noting the frustration in his step, the
curtness of his motions.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What is wrong with
him?&#8221; she asked Tonk Fah.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Tax--or, I guess,
Vasher--&#8221; Tonk Fah said. &#8220;He killed a good friend of
ours over in Yarn Dred a couple months back. Denth used to have
four people in his team.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It shouldn&#8217;t have
happened,&#8221; Jewels said. &#8220;Arsteel was a brilliant
duelist--almost as good as Denth. Vasher&#8217;s never been able to
beat either of them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He used that. . .sword
of his,&#8221; Tonk Fah grumbled.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There was no blackness
around the wound,&#8221; Jewels said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then he cut the
blackness out,&#8221; Tonk Fah snapped, watching Denth belt a sword
to his waist.&#160; &#8220;There&#8217;s no way Vasher beat Arsteel
in a fair duel. <i>No</i> way.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;This Vasher,&#8221;
Vivenna found herself saying. &#8220;I saw him.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Jewels and Tonk Fah turned
sharply.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He was at the court
yesterday,&#8221; Vivenna said. &#8220;Tall man, carrying a sword
when nobody else did. It had a black hilt and a silver sheath. He
looked. . .ragged. Hair unkempt, beard scraggly, clothing ripped in
places. &#160;Only a rope for a belt. He was watching me from
behind. He looked. . .dangerous.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tonk Fah cursed quietly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s him,&#8221;
Jewels said. &#8220;Denth!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221; Denth
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Jewels gestured at Vivenna.
&#8220;He&#8217;s a step ahead of us. Been tailing your princess
here. She saw him watching her at the court.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Colors!&#8221; Denth
swore, snapping a dueling blade into the sheath at his waist.
&#8220;Colors, colors, <i>Colors</i>!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221; Vivenna
asked, paling.&#160; &#8220;Maybe it was just a coincidence. He
could have just come to watch the court.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth shook his head.&#160;
&#8220;There <i>are</i> no coincidences where that man is
concerned, Princess. If he was watching you, then you can bet on
the Colors that he knows exactly who you are and where you came
from.&#8221; He met her eyes. &#8220;And he&#8217;s probably
planning to kill you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna fell silent.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tonk Fah laid a hand on her
shoulder. &#8220;Ah, don&#8217;t worry, Vivenna. He wants to kill
<i>us</i> too. At least you&#8217;re in pleasant
company.&#8221;</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Twenty</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;For the first time in her
several weeks at the palace, Siri stood before the God King&#8217;s
door and felt neither worried nor tired.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers, oddly,
wasn&#8217;t scribbling on his pad. He watched her silently,
expression unreadable.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri almost smiled to herself.
Gone were the days when she&#8217;d had to lie on the floor,
awkwardly trying to kneel while her back complained. Gone were the
days when she had to fall asleep on the marble, her discarded dress
her only comfort. Ever since she&#8217;d grown daring enough to
climb into the bed the previous week, she&#8217;d slept comfortable
and warm each night. And not once had she been touched by the God
King.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was actually a nice
arrangement. The priests--apparently satisfied that she was doing
her wifely duty--left her alone. She didn&#8217;t have to be naked
in front of anyone, and she was beginning to learn the social
dynamic of the palace. She&#8217;d even gone to a few more sessions
of the court, though she hadn&#8217;t interacted with the
Returned.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Vessel,&#8221;
Bluefingers said quietly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She turned toward him, raising
an eyebrow.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shuffled uncomfortably.
&#8220;You. . .have found a way to make the king respond to your
advances, then?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That got out, did
it?&#8221; she asked, looking back at the door. Inside, her smile
deepened.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Indeed it did,
Vessel,&#8221; Bluefingers said, tapping his ledger from beneath.
&#8220;Only those in the palace know about any of this, of
course.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Good,</i> Siri thought. She
glanced to the side.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers did not look
pleased.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221; she
asked.&#160; &#8220;I&#8217;m out of danger. The priests can stop
worrying about an heir.&#8221; <i>For a few months, at least.
They&#8217;ll get suspicious eventually.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Vessel,&#8221;
Bluefingers said with a harsh whisper. &#8220;Doing your duty as
the Vessel <i>was</i> the danger!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She frowned, looking at
Bluefingers as the little scribe tapped his board. &#8220;Oh gods,
oh gods, oh gods. . . .&#8221; he whispered to himself.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221; she
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I shouldn&#8217;t
say.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then what is the point
of bringing it up in the first place! Honestly, Bluefingers,
you&#8217;re getting a little frustrating. Leave me too confused,
and I might just start asking questions--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No!&#8221; Bluefingers
said sharply, then immediately glanced behind him, cringing
slightly. &#8220;Vessel, you must not speak to others of my fears.
They&#8217;re silly, really, nothing to bother anyone else with.
Just. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221; she
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You <i>must</i> not bear
him a child,&#8221; Bluefingers said. &#8220;That is the danger,
both to yourself and to God King himself. This all. . .everything
here in the palace. . .it is not what it appears to be.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s what
everyone says,&#8221; she snapped. &#8220;If it&#8217;s not what it
seems, then tell me what it <i>is</i>.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There is no need,&#8221;
Bluefingers said. &#8220;And I will not speak of this again. After
tonight, you will lead yourself to the bed chambers--you obviously
have the pattern down well enough.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You have to tell me
something!&#8221; Siri said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Vessel,&#8221;
Bluefingers said, leaning in. &#8220;I advise you to please keep
your voice down. You don&#8217;t know how many factions shift and
move inside the palace. I am part of a large number of them, and a
stray word on your part could. . .no, <i>would</i>. . .mean my
death. Do you understand that. <i>Can</i> you understand
that?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She hesitated.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I should <i>not</i> be
putting my life in danger because of you,&#8221; he said.
&#8220;But. . .there are things about this arrangement with which I
do not agree. And so, I give my warning.&#160; Avoid giving the God
King a child. If you want to know more than that, read your
histories. Honestly, I would think that you&#8217;d have come to
this all a little more prepared.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And with that, the little man
left.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri shook her head, then
sighed and pushed open the door and entered the God King&#8217;s
chamber. She closed the door, then eyed the God King--who watched
her, as always--and pulled off her dress, leaving her shift on. She
went to the bed and sat down, waiting a few minutes before climbing
up on her knees to do her bouncing, moaning act.&#160; She varied
it sometimes, doing several different rhythms, getting
creative.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Once she was done, she snuggled
down in the blankets and lay back in the pillows to think.
&#160;&#160;<i>Could Bluefingers have been any more obscure?</i>
she thought with frustration.&#160; Perhaps Vivenna would have
known how to read him. What little Siri knew of political intrigue
told her that people preferred to be subtle--obscure, even--to
protect themselves from implication.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Read your histories. . .
.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It seemed an odd
suggestion.&#160; If the secrets were that visible, then why would
they be dangerous?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Still, as she thought, she did
find herself feeling grateful for Bluefingers. She couldn&#8217;t
really blame him for his hesitance. He&#8217;d probably already
endangered himself far more than he really should have. Without
him, she wouldn&#8217;t have known she was in danger.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;In a way, he was the only
friend she had in the city--a person like herself, a person drawn
in from another country. A country that was overshadowed by
beautiful, bold Hallandren. A man who. . . .</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She trailed off she felt
something odd. She opened her eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Someone loomed over her in the
darkness.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Despite herself, Siri screamed
in surprise. The God King jumped back, stumbling. Heart thumping,
Siri shuffled backward on the bed, pulling the covers up over her
chest--though, of course, he had seen her unclothed so often that
it was a ridiculous gesture.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The God King stood in his dark
black clothing, looking uncertain. She&#8217;d never asked her
servants why he wore it. It seemed that he would prefer white,
which he could affect with his BioChroma so dramatically.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri sat for a few moments,
blankets clutched before her, before forcing herself to relax.
<i>Stop being so silly,</i> she told herself. <i>He&#8217;s never
even so much as threatened you.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s all
right,&#8221; she said softly. &#8220;You just startled
me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He glanced at her.&#160;
And--with a jolt of surprise--she realized that was the first time
she&#8217;d addressed him since her outburst the week before. Now
that he stood, she could see even better how. . .heroic he looked.
Tall, broad shouldered, like a statue. Human, but of more dramatic
proportions. Carefully, showing more uncertainty than she&#8217;d
ever expected from a man who had the title of God King, he moved
back to the bed. He sat down on its side.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Then, he reached to his shirt,
pulling it up.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Oh, Austre,</i> she thought
with sudden shock. <i>Oh, God, Lord of Colors! This is it!
He&#8217;s finally coming for me!</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She couldn&#8217;t fight off
the trembles. She&#8217;d convinced herself that she was safe,
comfortable. She shouldn&#8217;t have to go through this. Not
again!</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I can&#8217;t do it! I
can&#8217;t! I--</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The God King pulled something
out from underneath his shirt, then let the garment drape back
down.&#160; Siri sat, breath coming in gasps, slowly realizing that
he was making no further moves toward her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She calmed herself, forcing the
color back into her hair. The God King laid the object on the bed,
and the firelight revealed it to be. . .a book. Siri&#8217;s mind
was immediately drawn to the histories Bluefingers had mentioned,
but she immediately discarded the connection. This book, from the
title on the spine, was a book of stories told to children.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The God King let his fingers
rest on it, then he delicately opened to the first page. &#160;The
white parchment bent in the force of his BioChroma, shooting out
prismatic colors. This didn&#8217;t distort the text, and Siri
carefully inched forward, looking at the words.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She looked up at the God King.
His face seemed less controlled than usual. He nodded down at the
page, then pointed at the first word.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You want me to read
this?&#8221; Siri asked in a quiet whisper, mindful of the priests
who might be listening.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The God King nodded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It says &#8216;Stories
for Children,&#8217;&#8221; Siri said, confused.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He turned the book around,
looking at it himself. He rubbed his chin in thought.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>What&#8217;s going on?</i>
she thought. It didn&#8217;t seem like he was going to bed her. Did
he, instead, expect her to read a story to him? She couldn&#8217;t
imagine him asking for something that childish. She looked up at
him again. He turned the book around, pointing at the first word.
He nodded toward it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Stories?&#8221; Siri
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He pointed at the word. She
looked closely, trying to discern some hidden meaning or mysterious
text. She sighed, looking up at him. &#8220;Why don&#8217;t you
just tell me?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He paused, cocking his head.
Then he opened his mouth. By the waning light of the hearth&#8217;s
fire, Siri saw something very disturbing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The God King of Hallandren had
no tongue.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;There was a scar. She could see
it if she squinted closely. Something had happened to him, some
terrible accident had ripped it free. Or. . .had it been taken
purposefully?&#160; Why would anyone take out the tongue of the
king himself?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The answer came to her almost
immediately.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>BioChromatic Breath,</i> she
realized, thinking back a half-remembered lesson from her
childhood. <i>To Awaken objects, a person must give a Command.
Words spoken in a crisp, clear voice. No slurring or mumbling
allowed, or the Breath will not function.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The God King looked away,
suddenly, seeming ashamed. He picked up the book, holding it to his
chest, and moved to stand.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No, please,&#8221; Siri
said, edging forward. She reached her hand forward and touched his
arm.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The God King froze.&#160; She
immediately pulled her hand back. &#8220;I didn&#8217;t mean to
look so disgusted,&#8221; Siri said in her whispered voice.
&#8220;That wasn&#8217;t because of. . .your mouth. It was because
I was thinking about why it must have been done to you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The God King studied her, then
slowly seated himself again. He held himself back far enough that
they were not touching, and she did not reach for him again.
However, he did carefully--almost reverently--put his book back
down on the bed. He opened to the first page again, then looked at
her, his eyes pleading.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You can&#8217;t read,
can you?&#8221; Siri asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shook his head.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s the
secret,&#8221; she whispered. &#8220;The thing that scares
Bluefingers so much. You&#8217;re not king, you&#8217;re a puppet.
A <i>figurehead</i>. You&#8217;re paraded about by your priests,
given a BioChromatic aura so strong that it makes people fall to
their knees in wonder. Yet they took your tongue so that you
couldn&#8217;t ever use it, and they never taught you to read, lest
you learn too much or manage to communicate with others.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He sat looked away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;All so that they could
control you.&#8221; <i>No wonder Bluefingers is so scared. If they
would do that to their own God. . .then the rest of us are nothing
to them.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It made sense, now, why they
had been so adamant about her not talking to--or even kissing--the
king. It made sense why they would dislike her so much. They were
worried about someone spending time alone with the God King.
Someone who might discover the truth.<i>&#160;</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m sorry,&#8221;
she whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shook his head, then met her
eyes. There was a strength in them she wouldn&#8217;t have expected
of a man who had been sheltered and isolated as he must have been.
Finally, he looked down, pointing back at the words on the page.
The first word. The first letter, actually.<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That is the letter
&#8216;shash&#8217;&#8221; Siri said, smiling. &#8220;I can teach
you them all, if you wish.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priests had been right to
be worried.<br clear="all" style='page-break-before:always' /></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Twenty-one</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher stood atop the palace of
the God King, watching the sun set above the western rainforest.
The sunset was vibrant against the clouds, colors flaring,
beautiful reds and oranges painting the trees. Then the sun died
and the colors faded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Some said that before a man
died, his BioChromatic aura flared with sudden brightness. Like a
heart giving its last beat, like the final surge of a wave before
the tide retreats.&#160; Vasher had seen it happen, but not with
every death. The event was rare, much like a perfect sunset.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Dramatic,</i> Nightblood
noted.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>The sunset?</i> Vasher
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Yes.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You can&#8217;t see it,</i>
he said to the sword.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>But I can</i> feel<i>you
seeing it. Crimson. Like blood in the air.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher didn&#8217;t
respond.&#160; The sword couldn&#8217;t see. But with its powerful,
twisted BioChroma, it could sense life and people. Both were things
Nightblood had been created to protect.&#160; It was strange, how
easily and quickly protection could cause destruction. Sometimes,
Vasher wondered if the two weren&#8217;t really the same thing.
Protect a flower, destroy the pests who wanted to feed on it.
Protect a building, destroy the plants that could have grown in the
soil.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Protect a man. Live with the
destruction he creates.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was dark, yet Vasher&#8217;s
life sense was strong. He could just faintly feel the grass growing
below and knew how far away it was. With more Breath, he might even
have been able to sense the lichen growing on the palace stones. He
knelt down, laying one hand on his trouser leg and one on the stone
of the palace.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Strengthen me,&#8221; he
Commanded, Breathing. His trouser legs stiffened, and a patch of
color bled from the black stone beside him. Black was a color.
He&#8217;d never considered that before he&#8217;d become an
Awakener. Tassels hanging at his cuffs stiffened, wrapping around
his ankle. Kneeling as he was, they could also twist around the
bottoms of his feet.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher placed a hand on the
shoulder of his shirt, touching another patch of marble as he
formed an image in his mind. &#8220;Upon call, become my fingers
and grip,&#8221; he Commanded. The shirt quivered and a group of
tassels curled up around his hand. Five of them. Like fingers.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was a difficult Command. It
required far more Breath to Awaken than he would have liked--his
remaining Breath barely allowed him the Second Heightening--and the
visualization of the Command in his head taken practice to perfect.
The finger tassels were worth it; they had proven very useful, and
he was loath to engage in the night&#8217;s activities without
them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He stood up straight, noting
the scar of gray marble on the otherwise perfectly black palace
outcropping. He smiled to think of the indignation the priests
would feel when they discovered it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He tested the strength in his
legs. He gripped Nightblood, then took a careful step off the side
of the palace. He fell some ten fee; the palace was constructed
from massive, stone blocks in a steep pyramidal shape. He landed
hard on the next block, but his Awakened clothing absorbed some of
the shock, acting like a second set of bones. He stood up, nodding
to himself, then jumped down the other pyramid steps.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Eventually, he landed down on
the soft grass north of the palace, close to the wall that
surrounded the entire plateau. He crouched, watching quietly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Sneaking, Vasher?</i>
Nightblood said. <i>You&#8217;re terrible at sneaking.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher didn&#8217;t
respond.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You should just attack,</i>
Nightblood said. <i>You&#8217;re good at
that.</i>&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You just want to prove how
strong you are,</i> Vasher thought.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Well, yes,</i> the sword
replied. <i>But you do have to admit that you&#8217;re bad at
sneaking.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher ignored the sword. A
lone man in ragged clothing carrying a sword across the grounds
would be more than a little suspicious. So he surveyed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The Court of Gods at night was
still a busy place. Vasher had picked a night where the gods
hadn&#8217;t planned grand celebrations out in the courtyard, but
there were still small groups of priests, minstrels, or servants
moving between palaces.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>How sure are you about this
information of yours?</i> Nightblood said. <i>Because, honestly, I
don&#8217;t trust priests.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>He isn&#8217;t a priest,</i>
Vasher thought, still watching the grounds. He moved, creeping
through the dark starlight shadow of the wall&#8217;s overhang. His
contact had warned him to stay away from the palaces of influential
Gods like Blushweaver and Stillmark.&#160; But he had also said
that the palace of a lesser God--like Giftbeacon or
Peaceyearning--wouldn&#8217;t work for Vasher&#8217;s purpose.
Instead, Vasher sought out the home of Mercystar, a Returned known
for her involvement in politics, yet who wasn&#8217;t all that
influential.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her palace looked relatively
dark this evening, but there would still be guards. Hallandren
Returned had servants to burn. Sure enough, Vasher located two men
watching the door he wanted. They wore the extravagant costumes of
court servants, colored yellow and gold after the pattern of their
mistress.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The men weren&#8217;t
armed.&#160; Who would attack the home of a Returned? They were
simply there to keep anyone from wandering in an bothering their
lady while she slept. &#160;They stood by their lanterns, alert and
at attentive, but more for the sake of presentation than anything
else.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher obscured Nightblood
beneath his cloak, then walked out of the darkness, looking from
side to side anxiously, mumbling to himself. The hunch of his body
helped hide the overly-large sword hidden beneath the cloak.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Oh, please,</i> Nightblood
said flatly. <i>The crazy routine? You&#8217;re more clever than
that.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>It&#8217;ll work,</i> Vasher
thought. <i>This is the Court of the Gods. Nothing attracts the
unbalanced more than the prospect of meeting
deities.</i>&#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The two guards looked up when
they saw him approaching, but they didn&#8217;t seem surprised.
They had probably dealt with marginally insane people every day of
their professional careers.&#160; Vasher had seen the types who
ended up in the lines for Returned petitions.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Here now,&#8221; one of
the men said as Vasher approached. &#8220;How&#8217;d you get in
here?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher stepped up to them,
mumbling to himself about talking to the goddess. The second man
put a hand on Vasher&#8217;s shoulder. &#8220;Come on, friend.
Let&#8217;s get you back to the gates and see if there&#8217;s a
shelter that&#8217;s still taking people in for the
night.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher hesitated.&#160;
Kindness. He hadn&#8217;t expected that, for some reason. The
emotion made him feel a tad guilty for what he had to do next.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He snapped his arm to the side,
twitching his thumb twice to make the long finger tassels on his
shirt sleeve begin mimicking the motions of his real fingers. He
formed a fist.&#160; The tassels snapped forward, wrapping around
the first guard&#8217;s neck.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man choked out a soft gasp
of surprise. Before the second guard could react, Vasher brought
Nightblood up, ramming the hilt into the guard&#8217;s stomach. The
man stumbled, and Vasher swept his feet out from beneath him.
Vasher&#8217;s boot followed, coming down slowly but firmly on the
man&#8217;s neck. He wiggled, but Vasher&#8217;s legs bore Awakened
strength.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher stood for a long moment,
both men struggling, neither managing to escape their
strangulation. A short time later, Vasher stepped off the second
guard&#8217;s neck, then lowered the first guard to the grass,
twitching his thumb twice and releasing the finger tassels.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You didn&#8217;t use me
much,</i> Nightblood said, sounding hurt. <i>You could have used
me. I&#8217;m better than a shirt. I&#8217;m a sword.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher ignored the comments,
scanning the darkness to see if he had been spotted.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I really am better than a
shirt. I would have killed them. Look, they&#8217;re still
breathing.&#160; Stupid shirt.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>That was the point,</i>
Vasher thought. <i>Corpses cause more trouble than men who get
knocked out.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I could knock people
out,</i> Nightblood said immediately.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher shook his head, ducking
into the building. Returned palaces--this one included--were
generally just connections of open rooms with colorful sheets on
the doorways. The weather was so temperate in Hallandren that the
building could be open to the air at all times.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He didn&#8217;t go through the
central rooms, but instead stayed in the servant hallway--the one
that ran around the outside perimeter of the square building. If
Vasher&#8217;s informant had been truthful, then what he wanted
could be found on the northeast side of the building. As he walked,
he unraveled the rope from his waist.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Belts are stupid too,</i>
Nightblood said. <i>They--</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;At that moment, a group of four
servants rounded the corner directly ahead of Vasher. Vasher looked
up, shocked but not really surprised.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The servants&#8217; shock
lasted a second longer than his own. Within a heartbeat, Vasher
snapped the rope forward. &#8220;Hold things,&#8221; he Commanded,
giving up most of his remaining Breath. The rope rapped around the
arm of one of the servants, though Vasher had been aiming for the
neck. Vasher cursed, yanking the person forward. The man cried out
as Vasher knocked him against the side of the corner. The others
moved to run.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher whipped out Nightblood
with his other hand.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Yes!</i> the sword
thought.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher didn&#8217;t draw the
sword. He simply tossed it forward. The blade skidded against the
floor, then came to rest before the three men. One of the group
froze, looking down at the sword, transfixed. He reached out
tentatively, eyes awed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The other two took off running,
yelling about an intruder.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Blast!</i> Vasher thought.
He yanked the rope, knocking the entangled servant off of his feet
again, then dashed forward. As the servant tried to stumble to his
feet, Vasher wrapped the rope around the man&#8217;s hands and
body. To his side, the remaining servant ignored both Vasher and
his friend. This man picked up Nightblood, eyes alight. He undid
the snap on the hilt, moving to pull the sword.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;When he got barely a thin
sliver of blade free, a dark, water-like smoke began to stream out.
Some dripped to the ground; other tendrils of it snaked out and
wrapped around the man&#8217;s arm, drawing the color from his
skin.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher kicked out with an
Awakened leg, knocking the man down, forcing him to drop
Nightblood. Vasher left the first man squirming, tied up, then
grabbed the man who had held the sword and rammed his head against
the wall.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Breathing hard, Vasher grabbed
Nightblood, closed the sheath, and did up the snap. Then he reached
over, touching the rope that tied the dazed servant. &#8220;Your
Breath to mine,&#8221; he said, recovering the Breath from the
rope, leaving the man bound.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You didn&#8217;t let me kill
him,</i> Nightblood said, annoyed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>No,</i> Vasher said.
<i>Corpses, remember?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>And. . .two ran away from
me. That&#8217;s not right.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You cannot tempt the hearts
of men who are pure, Nightblood</i>. No matter how much he
explained that concept, it seemed beyond the sword&#8217;s ability
to comprehend.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher moved quickly, dashing
down the hallway. He only had a little further to go, but there
were already cries and calls for help. He had no desire to fight an
army of servants and soldiers. He stopped, uncertain, in the
unadorned hallway. He noticed, idly, that Awakening the rope had
inadvertently stolen the color from his boots and cloak--the only
pieces of clothing he wore that weren&#8217;t themselves
Awakened.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The grey clothing would
instantly brand him for what he was. But the thought of backing
down made him cringe. He gritted his teeth in frustration, punching
the wall. This was supposed to have gone a lot more smoothly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I told you that you
aren&#8217;t sneaky,</i> Nightblood said.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Shut up,</i> Vasher thought,
determined not to run. He reached into a pouch at his belt, pulling
out the object within: a dead squirrel.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Yuck,</i> Nightblood said
with a sniffing sound.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher knelt, putting a hand on
the creature.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Awaken to my
Breath,&#8221; he Commanded, &#8220;serve my needs, live at my
Command and my word. Fallen Rope.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Those last words, fallen rope,
formed the security phrase. Vasher could have chosen anything, but
he picked the first thing that came to mind.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;One Breath was leached from his
body, going down into the small rodent&#8217;s corpse. The thing
began to twitch. That was a Breath Vasher would never be able to
recover, for creating a Lifeless was a permanent event. The
squirrel lost all color, bleeding to grey, the Awakening feeding
off the body&#8217;s own colors to fuel the transformation. The
squirrel had been grey in the first place, so the difference was
tough to see. That&#8217;s why Vasher preferred to use them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Fallen Rope,&#8221; he
said to the creature, its grey eyes looking up at him. The security
phrase said, Vasher could imprint it with an order, much like he
did when performing a standard Awakening. &#8220;Make noise. Bite
people. Fallen Rope.&#8221; The last use of the word closed its
impressionability, so it could no longer be Commanded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The squirrel hopped up to its
feet then scampered down the hallway, heading for the open doorway
the fleeing servants had disappeared into. Vasher stood and began
to run again, hoping that his distraction would earn him time.
Indeed, a few moments later he heard cries coming from the doorway.
Clangs and screams followed. Lifeless could be difficult to stop,
particularly a fresh one with orders to bite.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher smiled.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>We could have taken
them,</i> Nightblood said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher rushed to the place his
information had indicated. The location was marked by a splintered
board in the wall, ostensibly just normal wear of the building.
Vasher crouched, hoping that his informant had not lied. He
searched around on the floor, then froze, finding the hidden
latch.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He pulled it open, revealing a
trap door. Returned palaces were only supposed to be one
story.&#160; He smiled.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>What if this tunnel
doesn&#8217;t have another way out?</i> Nightblood asked as Vasher
dropped into the hole, trusting on his Awakened clothing to absorb
the fall.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Then you&#8217;ll probably
get to kill a lot of people,</i> Vasher thought. He didn&#8217;t
have many worries in that regard. His information had been good so
far. He suspected that the rest was good as well.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priests of the Returned, it
appeared, were hiding things from the rest of the kingdom. And from
their gods.&#160;</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Twenty-Two</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man was small, almost
skeletal, and each shellfish he slurped made Vivenna cringe for two
reasons. Not only did she have trouble believing that anyone would
enjoy such slimy, slug-like food, but the mussels were also of a
very rare and expensive variety.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And she was paying.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The afternoon restaurant crowd
was large--people usually ate out at mid-day, when it made more
sense to buy food than return home for a meal. The entire concept
of restaurants still seemed strange to her. Didn&#8217;t these men
have wives or servants to make them meals? Didn&#8217;t they feel
uncomfortable eating in such a public place? It was so. .
.impersonal.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth and Tonk Fah sat on
either side of her. And, of course, they helped themselves to the
plate of mussels as well. Vivenna wasn&#8217;t certain--she&#8217;d
pointedly not asked--but she thought that the shellfish were
raw.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The thin man across from her
slurped another one down. He didn&#8217;t seem to be enjoying
himself much despite the expensive surroundings and free food. He
had a sneer on his lips and while he didn&#8217;t appear nervous,
she did notice that he kept an eye on the restaurant entrance.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So,&#8221; Denth said,
setting another empty shell on the table, then wiping his fingers
on the tablecloth--a common practice in T&#8217;Telir. &#8220;Can
you help us or not?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The little man--he simply
called himself Fob--shrugged. &#8220;You tell a wild tell,
mercenary.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You know me, Fob. When
have I lied to you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Whenever you&#8217;ve
been paid to do it,&#8221; Fob said with a snort. &#8220;I&#8217;ve
just never been able to catch you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tonk Fah chuckled, reaching for
another mussels. It slipped free of the shell as he brought it to
his lips; Vivenna had to steel herself to keep from gagging at the
slimy plop it made when it hit the table.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You don&#8217;t disagree
that war is coming, though,&#8221; Denth said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course not,&#8221;
Fob said. &#8220;But it&#8217;s been coming for decades now. What
makes you think that it will finally happen this year?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Can you afford to ignore
that chance?&#8221; Denth asked.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Fob squirmed a bit, then began
eating mussels again. Tonk Fah began stacking the shells, seeing
how many he could get balanced on top of one another. Vivenna said
nothing for the moment. Her minor part in the meetings didn&#8217;t
bother her. She watched, she learned, and she thought.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Fob was a landowner.&#160; He
cleared forests, then rented the land to workers. He often relied
on Lifeless to help with his clearing--workers loaned to him via
the government.&#160; There was only one stipulation upon the
lending. Should war come, all of the food produced on his holdings
during wartime immediately became the property of the Returned.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was a good deal.&#160; The
government would probably seize his lands during a war anyway, so
he didn&#8217;t really lose anything in the deal save for his right
to complain.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He ate another mussel.&#160;
<i>How does he keep packing them down?</i> she thought. Fob had
managed to slurp away nearly twice as many of the disgusting little
creatures as Tonk Fah.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That harvest won&#8217;t
come in, Fob,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;You will lose quite a bit
this year, should we prove right.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But,&#8221; Tonk Fah
said, adding another shell to his stack, &#8220;harvest early, sell
your stockpiles, and you stand to get ahead of your
competitors.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And what do you
gain?&#8221; Fob asked. &#8220;How do I know those same competitors
haven&#8217;t hired you to <i>convince</i> me a war is
coming?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The table fell silent--other
diners clattering at their own meals. Denth finally turned, eyeing
Vivenna, and nodded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She put up her shawl--not the
matronly one she&#8217;d brought from Idris, but a silken, gossamer
one that Denth had found for her. She met Fob&#8217;s eyes, then
changed her hair to a deep red.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He froze. &#8220;Do that
again,&#8221; he said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She changed it to blonde.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Fob sat back, letting his
mussel slip free of its shell. It slatted against the table a short
distance from the one Tonk Fah had dropped. &#8220;The
<i>queen</i>?&#8221; he asked with
shock.&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; Vivenna
said.&#160; &#8220;Her sister.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What&#8217;s going on
here?&#8221; Fob asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth smiled.
&#8220;She&#8217;s here to organize a resistance against the
Returned gods and to prepare Idrian interests here in T&#8217;Telir
for the coming war.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You don&#8217;t think
that old Royal up in the highlands would send his daughter for
nothing?&#8221; Tonk Fah said. &#8220;War. &#160;It&#8217;s the
only thing that would call for such desperation.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your sister,&#8221; Fob
said, eying Vivenna. &#8220;They sent the younger one into the
court. Why?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The king&#8217;s plans
are his own, Fob,&#8221; Denth said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Fob looked thoughtful.&#160;
Finally, he flipped the fallen muscle onto the plate of shells and
reached for a fresh one. &#8220;I <i>knew</i> there was more behind
that girl&#8217;s arrival than simple chance.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So you&#8217;ll
harvest?&#8221; Denth asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;ll think about
it,&#8221; Fob said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth nodded. &#8220;Good
enough, I guess.&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He nodded to Vivenna and Tonk
Fah, and the three of them left Fob eating his shellfish. Vivenna
settled the tab--which was even higher than she&#8217;d feared--and
then they joined Parlin, Jewels, and Clod the Lifeless waiting
outside. The group moved away from the restaurant, pushing through
the crowd easily, if only for the massive Lifeless that walked
before them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Where now?&#8221;
Vivenna asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth eyed her. &#8220;Not even
tired a little?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna didn&#8217;t
acknowledge her sore feet or her drowsiness. &#8220;We&#8217;re
working for the good of my people, Denth. A little tiredness is a
small price.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth shot a glance toward Tonk
Fah, but the overweight mercenary had split off into the crowd
toward a merchant&#8217;s stand, Parlin tagging along behind.
Parlin, Vivenna noticed, had gone back to wearing his ridiculous
green hat despite her disapproval.&#160; What was wrong with that
man? He wasn&#8217;t terribly bright, true, but he had always been
level headed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Jewels,&#8221; Denth
called up ahead. &#8220;Take us to the Raymar place.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Jewels nodded, giving
instructions to Clod that Vivenna couldn&#8217;t hear. The group
turned another direction through the crowd.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It only responds to
her?&#8221; Vivenna said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth shrugged. &#8220;It has
basic commands to do what Tonks and I say and I&#8217;ve got a
security phrase I can give if I need more control.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna frowned.&#160;
&#8220;Security phrase?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth eyed her. &#8220;This is
a rather heretical discussion we&#8217;re getting into. You sure
you want to continue?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna ignored the amusement
in his tone. &#8220;I still do <i>not</i> like the idea of that
thing being with us, particularly if I don&#8217;t have any way to
control it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;All Awakening works by
way of the Command, Princess,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;You infuse
something with life, then give it an order. Lifeless are valuable
because you can give them Commands <i>after</i> you create them,
unlike regular Awakened objects, which you can only Command once.
Plus, Lifeless can remember a long list of complicated orders and
are generally good about not misunderstanding them. They retain a
bit of their humanity, I guess.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna shivered. That made
them seem far too sentient for her likes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;However, that means
pretty much anyone can control a Lifeless,&#8221; Denth said.
&#8220;Not just the person who created them. So, we give them
security phrases. A couple words you can say that will let you
imprint the creature with new Commands.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So, what&#8217;s the
security phrase for Clod?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;ll have to ask
Jewels if you can have it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna opened her mouth to
complain, but thought better of it. Denth obviously didn&#8217;t
like interfering with Jewels or her work. Vivenna would simply have
to make a point of it later, once they were in a more private
location and she could hold his attention. Instead, she just eyed
Clod. He was dressed in simple clothing.&#160; Grey trousers and
grey shirt, with a leather jerkin that had been drained of color.
He carried a large blade at his waist. Not a dueling sword--a more
brutal, wide-bladed weapon.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>All in grey,</i> Vivenna
thought. <i>Is that because they want everyone to recognize Clod
for a Lifeless?</i>&#160; Despite what Denth said about Lifeless
being common, many people gave the thing a wide berth. <i>Snakes
might be common in the jungle,</i> she thought, <i>but that
doesn&#8217;t mean that people are excited about seeing
them.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Jewels chatted quietly at the
Lifeless, though it never responded. It simply walked, face
forward, inhuman in the steady rhythm of its steps.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Does she always. . .talk
to it like that?&#8221; Vivenna asked, shivering.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yeah,&#8221; Denth
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That doesn&#8217;t seem
very healthy.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth looked troubled, though
he said nothing. A few moments later, Tonk Fah and Parlin returned.
Tonk Fah, Vivenna was displeased to see, had a small monkey on his
shoulder. It chittered a bit, then ran behind Tonk Fah&#8217;s
neck, moving to the other shoulder.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;A new pet?&#8221;
Vivenna asked.&#160; &#8220;What happened to that parrot of yours,
anyway?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tonk Fah looked ashamed, and
Denth just shook his head. &#8220;Tonks isn&#8217;t very good with
pets.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That parrot was boring
anyway,&#8221; Tonk Fah said. &#8220;Monkeys are <i>much</i> more
interesting.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna shook her head.&#160;
It wasn&#8217;t long before they arrived at the next restaurant,
one far less lavish than the previous one. Jewels, Parlin, and the
Lifeless took up places outside, as usual, and Vivenna and the two
male mercenaries walked in.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The meetings were becoming
routine. During the last couple of weeks, they&#8217;d met with a
good dozen people of varying usefulness. Some were underground
leaders Denth thought might be capable of making a ruckus. Others
were merchants, like Fob.&#160; All in all, Vivenna was impressed
with the variety of quiet ways Denth had come up with to disrupt
things in T&#8217;Telir.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Most of the plans did, however,
require a display of Vivenna&#8217;s Royal Locks. Most people
instantly grasped the importance of a Royal daughter being in the
city, and she was left wondering just how Lemks had intended to
achieve results without such convincing proof.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth led them to a table in
the corner, and Vivenna frowned at how dimly lit and dirty the
restaurant was. Despite her hunger, she quickly determined that she
would not be eating anything at <i>this</i> establishment.
&#8220;Why is it that we keep switching restaurants, anyway?&#8221;
she said, sitting down--but only after wiping off the stool with
her handkerchief.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Harder to spy on us that
way,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;I keep warning you, princess. This
is more dangerous than it seems. Don&#8217;t let the simple meal
conversations throw you off. In any other city, we&#8217;d be
meeting in lairs, gambling parlors, or alleyways. Best to keep
moving.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They settled down, and as if
they hadn&#8217;t just come from their second lunch of the day,
Denth and Tonk Fah ordered food. Vivenna sat quietly in her chair,
preparing for the next meeting. Gods Feast was something of a holy
day in Hallandren--though, from what she&#8217;d seen, the people
of the pagan city had no real concept of what a &#8216;Holy
Day&#8217; was supposed to be. Instead of helping the monks in
their fields or caring for the needy, the people took the evening
off and splurged on meals--as if the Gods wanted them to be
lavish.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And, perhaps they did.&#160;
From what she&#8217;d heard, the Returned were wasteful beings. It
made sense for their followers to spend their &#8216;holy
day&#8217; being idle and gluttonous.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Their contact arrived before
the food did. He walked in with two bodyguards of his own. He wore
nice clothing--which meant bright clothing, in T&#8217;Telir--but
his beard was long and greasy, and he appeared to be missing
several teeth. He pointed, and his bodyguards pulled a second table
over next to Vivenna&#8217;s, then arranged three chairs at it. The
man took a seat, careful to keep his distance from Denth and Tonk
Fah.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;A little paranoid,
aren&#8217;t we?&#8221; Denth said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man raised his hands.
&#8220;Cautiousness never hurt a man.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;More food for us,
then,&#8221; Tonk Fah said as the plate arrived. It was covered
with bits of. . .something that had been battered and fried. The
monkey immediately scrambled down Tonk Fah&#8217;s arm and snatched
a few pieces.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So,&#8221; the man said,
&#8220;you&#8217;re the infamous Denth.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I am. I assume
you&#8217;re Garble?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man nodded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>One of the city&#8217;s less
reputable thieving lords,</i> Vivenna thought. <i>A strong ally of
Vahr&#8217;s rebellion.</i> They had been waiting weeks to set up
this meeting.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Good,&#8221; Denth said.
&#8220;We have some interest in making certain supply carts
disappear on the way to the city.&#8221; He said it so openly.
Vivenna glanced about, making certain no other tables were
close.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Garble owns this
restaurant, princess,&#8221; Tonk Fah whispered. &#8220;Every
second man in this room is probably a bodyguard.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Great,</i> she thought,
annoyed they hadn&#8217;t told her that before they entered. She
glanced around again, feeling far more jumpy this time.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Is that so?&#8221;
Garble asked, bringing Vivenna&#8217;s attention back to the
conversation. &#8220;You want to make things disappear? Caravans of
food?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s a difficult
job we ask,&#8221; Denth said grimly. &#8220;These aren&#8217;t
long distance caravans. Most of them will simply be coming into the
city from the outlying farms.&#8221; He nodded to Vivenna, and she
pulled out a small pouch of coins. She handed them to him, and he
tossed them to a nearby table.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;One of the bodyguards
investigated.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;For your trouble of
coming today,&#8221; Denth said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna watched the money go
with a crimp in her stomach. It felt downright <i>wrong</i> to be
using royal funds to bribe men like Garble. What she had just given
away wasn&#8217;t even a real bribe--it was simply &#8216;grease
money&#8217; as Denth put it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Now,&#8221; Denth said,
&#8220;the carts we&#8217;re talking about--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Wait,&#8221; Garble
said.&#160; &#8220;Let&#8217;s see the hair first.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna sighed, moving to put
up the shawl.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No shawl,&#8221; Garble
said. &#8220;No tricks. The men in this room are loyal.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna shot a glance at Denth,
and he nodded. So she shifted colors a couple of times. Garble
watched intently, scratching at his beard.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Nice,&#8221; he finally
said. &#8220;Nice indeed. Where&#8217;d you find her?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth frowned.
&#8220;What?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;A person with enough
Royal blood to imitate one of the princesses.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;She&#8217;s no
imposter,&#8221; Denth said as Tonk Fah continued to work on the
plate of fried somethings.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Come now,&#8221; Garble
said, smiling with a wide, uneven smile. &#8220;You can tell
me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s true,&#8221;
Vivenna said. &#8220;Being Royal is about more than just blood.
It&#8217;s about lineage and the holy calling of Austre. My
children will not have the Royal Locks unless I become queen of
Idris. Only potential heirs have the ability to change their hair
color.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Superstitious
nonsense,&#8221; Garble said. He leaned forward, ignoring her and
focusing on Denth. &#8220;I don&#8217;t care about your caravans or
supply offers, Denth. I want to buy the girl from you. How
much?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth was silent.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Word of her is moving
about town,&#8221; Garble said. &#8220;I see what you&#8217;re
doing. You could move a lot of people, make a lot of noise, with a
person who seemed to be of the Royal family. I don&#8217;t know
where you found her, or how you trained her so well, but I want
her.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth stood up slowly.&#160;
&#8220;We&#8217;re leaving,&#8221; he said. Garble&#8217;s
bodyguards stood up too.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth moved.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;There were flashes--reflections
of sunlight, and bodies moving too fast for Vivenna&#8217;s shocked
mind to follow. Then the motion stopped. Garble remained in his
chair.&#160; Denth stood poised, his dueling blade sticking through
the neck of one of the bodyguards.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The bodyguard looked surprised,
his hand still on his sword. Vivenna hadn&#8217;t even seen Denth
draw his weapon. The other bodyguard stumbled, blood staining the
front of his jerkin from where--shockingly--Denth seemed to have
managed to stab him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He slipped to the ground,
bumping Garble&#8217;s table in his death throws.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Lord of Colors. . . .</i>
Vivenna thought. <i>So fast!</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So, you <i>are</i> as
good as they say,&#8221; Garble said, still looking unconcerned.
Around the room, other men had stood. Some twenty of them. Tonk Fah
grabbed another handful of fried things, then nudged Vivenna.
&#8220;We might want to get up,&#8221; he whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth pulled his sword free of
the bodyguard&#8217;s neck, and the man joined his friend, bleeding
and dying on the floor. Denth slammed his sword into its sheath
without wiping it, never breaking Garble&#8217;s gaze.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;People speak of
you,&#8221; Garble said. &#8220;Say you appeared out of nowhere a
decade or so back. Gathered yourself a team of the best--stole them
from important men. Or important prisons. Nobody knows much about
you, other than the fact that you&#8217;re fast.&#160; Some say
inhumanly so.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth nodded toward the
doorway. Vivenna stood nervously, then let Tonk Fah pull her
through the room. The guards stood with their hands on their
swords, but nobody attacked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s a pity we
couldn&#8217;t do business,&#8221; Garble said, sighing. &#8220;I
hope you&#8217;ll think of me for future dealings.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth finally turned away,
joining Vivenna and Tonk Fah as they left the restaurant and moved
out onto the street. Parlin and Jewels hurried to catch up.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He&#8217;s letting us
go?&#8221; Vivenna asked, heart thumping.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He just wanted to see my
blade,&#8221; Denth said. He still seemed tense. &#8220;It happens
sometimes.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Barring that, he wanted
to steal himself a princess,&#8221; Tonk Fah added. &#8220;Either
way, he won. He either got to verify Denth&#8217;s skill or he got
you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But. . .you could have
killed him!&#8221; Vivenna said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tonk Fah snorted. &#8220;And
bring down the wrath of half the thieves, assassins, and burglars
in the city?&#160; No, Garble knew he wasn&#8217;t ever in any
danger from us.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth looked back at her.
&#8220;I&#8217;m sorry for wasting your time--I thought he&#8217;d
be more useful.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She frowned, noting for the
first time the careful mask that Denth kept on his emotions.
She&#8217;d always thought of him as carefree, like Tonk Fah, but
now she saw hints of something else. Control. Control that was, for
the first time since they&#8217;d met, in danger of cracking.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, no harm
done,&#8221; she said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Except for those slobs
that Denth poked,&#8221; Tonk Fah added, happily feeding another
morsel to his monkey.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We need to--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Princess?&#8221; a voice
asked from the crowd.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth and Tonk Fah both spun.
Once again, Denth&#8217;s sword was out before Vivenna could track.
This time, however, he didn&#8217;t strike. The man behind them
didn&#8217;t seem much of a threat. He wore ragged brown clothing,
and had a dirty face. He had the look of a farmer.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, princess,&#8221; the
man said, hurrying forward, ignoring the blades. &#8220;It is you.
I heard rumors, but. . .oh, you&#8217;re here!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth shot a look at Tonk Fah,
and the larger mercenary reached out, putting a hand in front of
the newcomer before he got too close to Vivenna. She would have
thought the caution unnecessary had she just not seen Denth kill
two men in an eye blink. The danger Denth always talked about was
slowly seeping into her mind. If this man had a hidden weapon and a
little skill, he could kill her before she realized what was
happening.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was a chilling
realization.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Princess,&#8221; the man
said, falling to his knees.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Please,&#8221; she
said.&#160; &#8220;Do not put me above others.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh,&#8221; the man said,
looking up. &#8220;I&#8217;m sorry. It&#8217;s been so long since I
left Idris! But, it <i>is</i> you!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;How did you know I was
here?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The Idrians in
T&#8217;Telir,&#8221; the man said. &#8220;They say. .
.you&#8217;ve come to take the throne back.&#160; We&#8217;ve been
oppressed here for so long. . .I thought people were just making up
stories. But it&#8217;s true! You&#8217;re here!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth glanced at her, then at
Garble&#8217;s restaurant, which was still close behind them. He
nodded to Tonk Fah. &#8220;Grab him, search him, and we&#8217;ll
talk somewhere else.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The &#8216;somewhere
else&#8217; turned out to be a ragged dump of a building in a poor
section of town about a fifteen minutes from the restaurant.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna found the slums of
T&#8217;Telir to be very interesting, on an intellectual level at
least. Even here, there was color. People wore faded clothing.
Bright strips of cloth hung from windows, crossed overhangs, and
even sat in puddles on the street. Colors, muted or dirty. Like a
carnival that had been hit by a mudslide.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna stood outside the shack
with Jewels, Parlin, and the Idrian, waiting as Denth and Tonk Fah
made certain the building wasn&#8217;t hiding any unseen threats.
She wrapped her arms about herself, feeling an odd sense of
despair. The faded colors in the alley-like street felt wrong. They
were dead things. Like a beautiful bird that had fallen motionless
to the ground, its shape intact, but the magic somehow gone.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Ruined reds, stained yellows,
broken greens. In T&#8217;Telir, even simple things--like chair
legs and storage sacks--were dyed bright colors. How much must the
people of the city spend on dyes and inks? If it hadn&#8217;t been
for the Tears of Edgli, the vibrant flowers that grew only in the
T&#8217;Telir climate, it would have been impossible.&#160;
Hallandren had made an entire economy out of growing, harvesting,
and producing dyes from the majestic flowers.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna wrinkled her nose at
the smell of refuse. Scents were more vibrant to her now, much like
colors. It wasn&#8217;t that her ability to smell was any better,
the things that she smelled just seemed more rich. She shivered.
Even still, weeks after the infusion of Breath, she didn&#8217;t
feel normal. She could <i>sense</i> the teeming people of the city,
could sense Parlin beside her, watching the alleys nearby with
suspicion. He could sense Denth and Tonk Fah inside--one of them
appeared to be inspecting the basement.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She could. . . .</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She froze. She
<i>couldn&#8217;t</i> feel Jewels. She glanced to the side, but the
shorter woman was there, hands on hips, muttering to herself at
being left with the &#8216;kids.&#8217; Her Lifeless abomination
was beside her; Vivenna hadn&#8217;t expected to be able to feel
it. Why couldn&#8217;t she feel Jewels? Vivenna had a sharp moment
of panic, thinking that Jewels might be some twisted Lifeless
creation. Then, however, she realized that there was a simple
explanation.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Jewels had no Breath.&#160; She
was a Drab.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Now that Vivenna knew what to
look for, it seemed obvious. &#160;She should have seen it earlier;
she had the BioChroma. Even without the Breath, Vivenna thought she
might have been able to tell. There wasn&#8217;t as much of a
sparkle of life in Jewels&#8217; eyes. She seemed more grumpy, less
pleasant. She seemed to put others on edge.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Plus Jewels never noticed that
Vivenna was watching her. Whatever sense it was that made others
glance about if they were watched for too long, Jewels didn&#8217;t
have it. Vivenna turned away, and found herself blushing. Seeing a
person without Breath. . .it felt like looking at someone when they
were changing. Seeing them exposed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Poor woman,</i> she
thought.&#160; <i>I wonder how it happened.</i> Had she sold it
herself? Or had it been taken from her? Suddenly, Vivenna felt
awkward. <i>Why should I have so much, when she has such
little?</i> It seemed so ostentatious.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She felt Denth approach before
he actually pushed the door open. It looked ready to fall off its
hinges. &#8220;Safe,&#8221; he said. Then he eyed Vivenna.
&#8220;You don&#8217;t have to be involved with this, if you
don&#8217;t want to waste your time, Princess. Jewels can take you
back to the house. We&#8217;ll question the man and bring you
word.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shook her head.&#160;
&#8220;No. I want to hear what he has to say.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I figured as
much,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;We&#8217;ll want to cancel our next
appointment, though. &#160;Jewels,
you--&#8221;&#160;&#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;ll do it,&#8221;
Parlin said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth paused, glancing at
Vivenna.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Look, I may not
understand everything going on in this city,&#8221; Parlin said,
sighing, &#8220;but I can deliver a simple message. I&#8217;m not
an idiot.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Let him go,&#8221;
Vivenna said. &#8220;I trust him.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth shrugged, but gave Parlin
a set of instructions and sent him off. &#160;Then Denth waved for
Vivenna and the others to enter the building. The nervous Idrian
man--Thame--went first. Vivenna followed him in, and was surprised
to find the inside of the building looked quite a bit more sturdy
than the outside had indicated.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tonk Fah found a stool, and he
placed it down in the center of the room.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Have a seat,
friend,&#8221; Denth said, gesturing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Thame nervously settled down on
the stool.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Now,&#8221; Denth said,
&#8220;why don&#8217;t you tell us how you found out that the
princess was going to be in that particular restaurant
today?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Thame glanced from side to
side. &#8220;I just happened to be walking in the area and
I--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tonk Fah cracked his knuckles.
Vivenna glanced at him, suddenly noticing that Tonk Fah seemed
more. . .dangerous. The idle, overweight man who liked to nap
seemed to have vanished. In his place was a thug with sleeves
rolled up, showing off muscles that bulged beneath his girth.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Thame was sweating. To the
side, Clod the Lifeless stepped into the room, his inhuman eyes
falling into shadow, his face looking like something crafted from
wax. An impersonation of a human.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I. . .run jobs for one
of the bosses in the city,&#8221; Thame said. &#8220;Little things.
Nothing big. When you&#8217;re one of us, you take the jobs you can
get.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;One of us?&#8221; Denth
asked, resting his hand on the pommel of his sword.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Idrian.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;ve seen Idrians
in good positions in the city, friend,&#8221; Denth said.
&#8220;Merchants. Moneylenders.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The lucky ones,
sir,&#8221; Thame said, gulping. &#8220;They have their own money.
People will work with anyone who has money. If you&#8217;re just a
regular man, things are different. People look at your clothing,
listen to your accent, and they find others to do their work. Say
we&#8217;re not trustworthy. Or that we&#8217;re boring. Or that we
steal.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And do you?&#8221;
Vivenna found herself asking.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Thame looked at her, then
glanced down at the building&#8217;s dirt floor.
&#8220;Sometimes,&#8221; he said. &#8220;But not at first. I only
do it now, when my boss asks me to.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That still doesn&#8217;t
answer how you knew where to find us, Friend,&#8221; Denth said
quietly. His inviting use of the word &#8216;friend,&#8217; when
contrasted with Tonk Fah on one side and the Lifeless on the other,
made Vivenna shiver.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My boss talks too
much,&#8221; Thame said. &#8220;He knew what was happening at that
restaurant--he sold the information to a couple of people. I heard
for free.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth glanced at Tonk Fah.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Everyone knows
she&#8217;s in the city,&#8221; Thame said quickly.
&#8220;We&#8217;ve all heard the rumors. It&#8217;s no coincidence.
Things are bad for us. Worse than they&#8217;ve ever been. The
princess came to help, right?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Friend,&#8221; Denth
said.&#160; &#8220;I think it&#8217;s best that you forget this
entire meeting. I realize that there will be temptation to sell
information. I promise you, we can find out if you did that. And,
we can--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Denth, that&#8217;s
enough,&#8221; Vivenna said. &#8220;Stop scaring the
man.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The mercenary glanced at her,
causing Thame to jump.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, for the Colors
sake,&#8221; she said walking forward, kneeling beside
Thame&#8217;s stool. &#8220;No harm will come to you, Thame. You
have done well in seeking me out, and I trust you to keep news of
our meeting quiet. But, tell me, if things are so bad in
T&#8217;Telir, why not return to Idris?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Travel costs money, your
highness,&#8221; he said. &#8220;You have to buy food for the weeks
it takes to climb to the highlands. I can&#8217;t afford it--most
of us can&#8217;t.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Are there many of you
here?&#8221; Vivenna asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, your
highness.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna nodded. &#8220;I want
to meet with the others.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Princess--&#8221; Denth
said, but she shot him a glance.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I can gather some
together,&#8221; Thame said, nodding eagerly. &#8220;I promise.
I&#8217;m known to a lot of the Idrians.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Good,&#8221; Vivenna
said.&#160; &#8220;Because I <i>have</i> come to help. How shall we
contact you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ask around for
Yeg,&#8221; he said. &#8220;That&#8217;s my boss.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna rose then gestured
toward the doorway. Thame fled without needing any further
prompting. Jewels, who stood guarding the doorway, reluctantly
stepped aside and let the man scuttle away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The room was silent for a
moment.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Jewels,&#8221; Denth
said.&#160; &#8220;Follow him.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She nodded and was gone.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna glanced back at the two
mercenaries, expecting to find them angry at her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Aw, did you have to let
him go so fast?&#8221; Tonk Fah said, sitting down on the floor,
looking morose.&#160; Whatever he&#8217;d done to look dangerous
was gone, evaporating faster than water on metal in the sun.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There, now you&#8217;ve
done it,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;He&#8217;ll be sullen for the
rest of the day.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I <i>never</i> get to be
the bad guy any more,&#8221; Tonk Fah said, falling back and
staring up at the ceiling. His monkey wandered over and sat on the
top of his ample stomach.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;ll get over
it,&#8221; Vivenna said, rolling her eyes. &#8220;Why were you so
hard on him, anyway?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth shrugged. &#8220;You know
what I like least about being a mercenary?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I suspect that
you&#8217;re going to tell me,&#8221; Vivenna said, tapping her
foot.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;People are always trying
to fool you,&#8221; he said, sitting down on the floor beside Tonk
Fah. &#8220;They all think that, because you&#8217;re hired muscle,
you&#8217;re an idiot.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He paused, as if expecting Tonk
Fah to give his usual counterpoint. Instead, however, the bulky
mercenary just continued to stare at the ceiling. &#8220;Arsteel
<i>always</i> got to be the mean one,&#8221; he said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth sighed, shooting her a
&#8220;This is your fault&#8221; look. &#8220;Anyway,&#8221; he
continued. &#8220;I couldn&#8217;t be sure that our friend there
wasn&#8217;t a plant arranged by Garble. He could have pretended to
be a loyal subject, gotten inside our defenses, then knifed you in
the back. Best to be safe, princess.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She sat down on the stool, and
was tempted to say that he was over-reacting, but. . .well, she had
just seen him kill two men in her defense. <i>I&#8217;m paying
them,</i> she thought. <i>I should probably just let them do their
job.</i> &#8220;Tonk Fah,&#8221; she said. &#8220;You can be the
mean one next time.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He looked up. &#8220;You
promise?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; she
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Can I yell at the person
we are interrogating?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Sure,&#8221; she
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Can I growl at
him?&#8221; he asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I. . .guess,&#8221; she
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Can I break his
fingers?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She frowned.
&#8220;No!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Not even the unimportant
ones?&#8221; Tonk Fah asked. &#8220;I mean, people have <i>five</i>
after all. The little ones don&#8217;t even do that
much.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna paused, then Tonk Fah
and Denth started laughing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, honestly,&#8221; she
said, turning away. &#8220;I can never tell when you move from
being serious to being ridiculous.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s what makes
it so funny,&#8221; Tonk Fah said, still chuckling.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Are we leaving,
then?&#8221; Vivenna said, rising.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Nah,&#8221; Denth
said.&#160; &#8220;Lets wait a bit. I&#8217;m still not sure that
Garble isn&#8217;t looking for us. Best to lay low for a few
hours.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She frowned, glancing at Denth.
Tonk Fah, amazingly, was already snoring softly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I thought you said that
Garble would let us go,&#8221; she said. &#8220;That he was just
testing us--that he wanted to see how good you were.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s
likely,&#8221; Denth said.&#160; &#8220;But I&#8217;ve been known
to be wrong. He might have let us go because he was worried about
my sword being so close to him. He could be having second thoughts.
We&#8217;ll give it a few hours, then head back and ask my watchers
if anyone has been poking around the house.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Watchers?&#8221; Vivenna
asked. &#8220;You have people watching our house?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course,&#8221; Denth
said. &#8220;Kids work cheap in the city. Worth the coin, even when
you&#8217;re not protecting a princess from a rival
kingdom.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She folded her arms,
standing.&#160; She didn&#8217;t feel like sitting, so she began to
pace.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I wouldn&#8217;t worry
too much about Garble,&#8221; Denth said, eyes closed as he sat
back, leaning against the wall. &#8220;This is just a
precaution.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shook her head.&#160;
&#8220;It makes sense that he&#8217;d want revenge, Denth,&#8221;
she said. &#8220;You killed two of his men.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Men can be cheap in this
city too, Princess.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You say he was testing
you,&#8221; Vivenna said. &#8220;But what would be the point of
that? Provoking you to action just to let you go?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;To see how much of a
threat I was,&#8221; Denth said, shrugging, eyes still closed.
&#8220;Or, more likely, to see if I was worth the pay I usually
demand. Again, I wouldn&#8217;t worry so much.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She sighed, then wandered over
to the window so she could watch the street.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You should probably stay
away from the window,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;Just to be
safe.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>First he tells me not to
worry, then he tells me not to let myself be seen,</i> she thought
with frustration, walking toward the back of the room, moving
toward the door down to the cellar.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I wouldn&#8217;t do
that, either,&#8221; Denth noted. &#8220;Stairs are broken in a few
places. Not much to see, anyway. Dirt floor. Dirt walls. Dirt
ceiling.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She sighed again, turning away
from the door.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What is with you,
anyway?&#8221; he asked, still not opening his eyes.
&#8220;You&#8217;re not usually this nervous.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t
know,&#8221; she said. &#8220;Being locked in like this makes me
anxious.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Doesn&#8217;t sound like
a very princessly attribute,&#8221; Denth noted.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>It isn&#8217;t,</i> she
realized. <i>That sounded like something Siri would say. What</i>
is <i>wrong with me lately?</i> She forced herself to sit down on
the stool, folding her hands in her lap, reasserting control of her
hair which had rebelliously started to lighten to a brown.
&#8220;Please,&#8221; she said, forcing herself to sound patient,
&#8220;tell me of this place. Why did you select this
building?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth cracked an eyelid.&#160;
&#8220;We rent it,&#8221; he finally said. &#8220;It&#8217;s nice
to have safehouses around the city.&#160; Since we don&#8217;t use
them very often, we find the cheapest ones we can.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I noticed,</i> Vivenna
thought, but fell silent, recognizing how stilted her attempt at
conversation had sounded. She sat quietly, looking down at her
hands, trying to figure out just what had set her on edge.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was more than the fight. The
truth was, she was worried about how long things in T&#8217;Telir
were taking. Her father would have received her letter two weeks
before and would know that <i>two</i> of his daughters were in
Hallandren,. She could only hope that the logic of her letter,
mixed with her threats, would keep him from doing anything
foolish.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She was glad Denth had made her
abandon Lemks&#8217; house. If her father did send agents to
retrieve her, they would probably try to find Lemks first--just as
she had. However, a piece of her wished that Denth hadn&#8217;t
been so insightful. If they were still living in Lemks&#8217; home,
she might very well have been discovered already.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And she might be on her way
back to Idris.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She acted so determined.&#160;
Indeed, sometimes she <i>felt</i> quite determined. Those were the
times when she thought about Siri or her kingdom&#8217;s needs.
However, those times--the princess times--were actually rather
rare. The rest of the time, she wondered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;What was she doing?&#160; She
didn&#8217;t know about subterfuge or warfare. Denth was really
behind everything she was &#8216;doing&#8217; to help Idris. What
she had suspected on that first day had prove true. Her preparation
and learning amounted to little. She didn&#8217;t know how to go
about saving Siri. She didn&#8217;t know what to do about the
Breath within her. She didn&#8217;t even, really, know if she
wanted to stay in this insane, over-crowded, over-<i>colored</i>
city.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;In short, she was useless. And
that was one thing, above all else, that her training had never
prepared her to deal with.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You really want to meet
with the Idrians?&#8221; Denth asked. Vivenna looked up. Outside,
it was growing darker as evening approached.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Do I?</i> she thought. <i>If
my father has agents in the city, they might be there. But, if
there&#8217;s something I can do for those people. . . .</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;d like
to,&#8221; she said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He fell silent.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You don&#8217;t like
it,&#8221; she said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shook his head. &#8220;It
will be hard to arrange, hard to keep quiet, and will make you hard
to protect. These meetings we&#8217;ve been having--they&#8217;ve
all been in controlled areas.&#160; If you meet with the common
folk, it will be different.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She nodded quietly. &#8220;I
want to do it anyway. I. . .have to do something, Denth. Something
useful.&#160; Being paraded before these contacts of yours is
helping. But I need to do more.&#160; If war is coming, we need to
prepare these people. Help them, somehow.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She looked up, staring out
toward the windows. Clod the Lifeless stood in the corner where
Jewels had left him. Vivenna shivered, looking away. &#8220;I want
to help my sister,&#8221; she said. &#8220;And I want to be useful
to my people. But, I can&#8217;t help feeling that I&#8217;m not
doing much for Idris by staying in the city.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Better than
leaving,&#8221; Denth said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why?&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Because if you left,
there wouldn&#8217;t be anyone to pay me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She rolled her eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I wasn&#8217;t
joking,&#8221; Denth noted. &#8220;I really do like getting paid.
However, there are better reasons to stay.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Like what?&#8221; she
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shrugged. &#8220;Depends, I
guess. Look, princess, I&#8217;m not the type to give brilliant
advice or deep council. I&#8217;m a mercenary. You pay me, you
point, and I go stab things. But I figure that if you think about
it, you&#8217;ll find that running off to Idris is about the
<i>least</i> useful thing you could do. You won&#8217;t be able to
do anything there other than sit about and knit doilies. Your
father has other heirs. Here, you might be largely ineffective--but
there you&#8217;re redundant.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He fell silent, stretching,
resting back a little more. <i>Tough man to have a conversation
with, sometimes</i>, Vivenna thought to herself, shaking her head.
Still, she found the words comforting. She smiled, turning.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And found Clod standing right
beside her stool.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She yelped, half-scrambling,
half-falling backward. Denth was on his feet in a heartbeat, sword
drawn, and Tonk Fah wasn&#8217;t far behind.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna stumbled to her feet,
her skirts getting in the way, and placed a hand against her chest,
stilling her heartbeat. The Lifeless stood, watching her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He does that
sometimes,&#8221; Denth said, chuckling, though it sounded fake to
Vivenna. &#8220;Just walks up to people.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Like he was curious
about them,&#8221; Tonk Fah.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They <i>can&#8217;t</i>
be curious,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;No emotion at all. Clod. Go
back to your corner.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The Lifeless turned and began
to walk.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; Vivenna said,
shivering. &#8220;Put it in the basement.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But, the stairs--&#8221;
Denth said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;<i>Now</i>!&#8221;
Vivenna snapped, hair tingeing red at the tips.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth sighed. &#8220;Clod, to
the cellar.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The Lifeless turned and walked
to the door at the back. As he went down the steps, Vivenna heard
one crack slightly, but the creature made it safely, judging by the
sound of his footsteps. She sat back down, trying to calm her
breathing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Sorry about that,&#8221;
Denth said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I can&#8217;t feel
him,&#8221; Vivenna said. &#8220;It&#8217;s unnerving. I. . .forget
that he&#8217;s there, and don&#8217;t notice when he
approaches.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth nodded. &#8220;I
know.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Jewels, too,&#8221; she
said, glancing at him. &#8220;She is a Drab.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yeah,&#8221; Denth said,
settling back down. &#8220;Has been since she was a child. Her
parents sold her Breath to one of the gods.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They each need a Breath
each week to survive,&#8221; Tonk Fah added.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;How horrible,&#8221;
Vivenna said. <i>I really need to show her more kindness.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s really not so
bad,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;I&#8217;ve been without Breath
before.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You have?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He nodded. &#8220;Everyone goes
through times when they&#8217;re a little bit short on coin. The
nice thing about Breath is that you can always buy one off someone
else.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Somebody is always
selling,&#8221; Tonk Fah said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna shook her head,
shivering. &#8220;But you have to live without it for a time. Have
no soul.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth laughed--and this time it
was definitely genuine. &#8220;Oh, most of that is superstition,
Princess.&#160; Lacking Breath doesn&#8217;t change you that
much.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It makes you less
kind,&#8221; Vivenna said. &#8220;More irritable. Like. . .
.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Jewels?&#8221; Denth
asked, amused. &#8220;Nah, she&#8217;d be like that anyway.
I&#8217;m sure of it. Either way, when I&#8217;ve sold my Breath, I
didn&#8217;t feel much different. You really have to pay attention
to even notice it&#8217;s missing.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna turned away.&#160; She
didn&#8217;t expect him to understand. It was easy to call her
beliefs superstition, but she could just as easily turn the words
back on Denth.&#160; People saw what they wanted to see. If he felt
the same without Breath, it seemed a fairly easy way to rationalize
the selling of it--and then buying of another Breath off of an
innocent person.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The conversation died off until
Jewels returned. She walked in and, once again, Vivenna barely
noticed her. <i>I&#8217;m starting to rely on that life sense far
too much,</i> she thought with annoyance, standing as Jewels nodded
to Denth.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He is who he says he
is,&#8221; Jewels said. &#8220;I asked around, got three
confirmations from people I kind of trust.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;All right, then,&#8221;
Denth said, stretching and climbing to his feet. He kicked Tonk Fah
awake.&#160; &#8220;Let&#8217;s <i>carefully</i> head back to the
house.&#8221;<br clear="all" style=
'page-break-before: always' /></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Twenty-Three</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong found Blushweaver in
the grassy portion of the courtyard behind her palace. She was
enjoying the art of one of the city&#8217;s master gardeners.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong strolled through the
grass, his entourage hovering about, holding up a parasol to keep
away the sun, and generally seeing that he was overly pampered. He
passed planters, pots, and even vases filled with various kinds of
growing things. There were hundreds of different items, and many
had been arranged into patterns and rows.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Temporary flowerbeds. The gods
were too godly to leave the Court and visit gardens, so the gardens
had to be brought to them. Such an enormous undertaking required
dozens of workers and carts full of plants. Nothing was too grand
to deny the gods.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Except, perhaps, the ability to
leave.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver stood admiring one
of the patterns of vases. She noticed Lightsong as he approached,
his BioChroma making the flowers shine more vibrantly in the
afternoon sunlight. She was wearing an amazingly modest dress, for
her. It had no sleeves and looked to be constructed entirely out of
a single wrap of green silk, but it covered up the essential bits
and then some.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Lightsong, dear,&#8221;
she said, smiling. &#8220;Visiting a lady in her home? How forward.
Well, enough of this small talk. Let us retire to the
bedroom.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He smiled, holding up a sheet
of paper as he approached her. &#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She paused, then accepted it.
The front was covered with colored dots--the Artisan&#8217;s
Language.&#160; &#8220;What is this?&#8221; she asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I figured I knew how our
conversation would begin,&#8221; he said. &#8220;And so I saved us
the trouble of having to go through it. I had it written out
beforehand.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver raised an eyebrow,
then read. &#8220;&#8216;First off, Blushweaver says something that
is mildly suggestive.&#8217;&#8221; She glanced at him.
&#8220;Mildly? I mentioned the bedroom. I&#8217;d call that
blatant.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I underestimated
you,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;Please continue.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;&#8216;Then Lightsong
says something to deflect her,&#8217;&#8221; Blushweaver read.
&#8220;&#8216;It is so incredibly charming and clever that she is
left stunned by his brilliance and cannot speak for several
minutes. . . .&#8217; Oh, honestly, Lightsong. Do I have to read
this?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s a
masterpiece,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Best work I&#8217;ve ever done.
Please, the next part is important.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She sighed.&#160;
&#8220;&#8216;Blushweaver says something about politics which is
dreadfully boring but she offsets it by wiggling her chest. After
that, Lightsong apologizes for being so distant lately. He explains
that he had to work out some things.&#8217;&#8221; She paused,
eyeing him. &#8220;Does this mean that you&#8217;re finally ready
to be part of my plans?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He nodded. To the side, a group
of gardeners removed the flowers. They returned in waves, building
a pattern of blossoming trees in large pots around Blushweaver and
Lightsong.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t think that
the queen is involved in a plot to take the throne,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;I&#8217;ve spoken with her only briefly, but
I am convinced.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then why agree to join
with me?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He stood quietly for a moment,
enjoying the blossoms. &#8220;Because,&#8221; he said. &#8220;I
intend to see that you don&#8217;t crush her.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My dear
Lightsong,&#8221; Blushweaver said, pursing bright red lips.
&#8220;I&#8217;m harmless.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He raised an eyebrow.&#160;
&#8220;I doubt that.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Now, now,&#8221; she
said, &#8220;you should never point out a lady&#8217;s lies.
Anyway, I&#8217;m glad you came. We have work to do.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Work?&#8221; he said.
&#8220;That sounds like. . .work.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course, dear,&#8221;
she said, walking away. Gardeners immediately ran forward, pulling
aside the small trees and clearing a path for her. The master
gardener himself stood directing the composition.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong hurried and caught
up. &#8220;Work,&#8221; he said. &#8220;You know what my philosophy
on that word is?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I am under the subtle
impression that you do not support it,&#8221; Blushweaver said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, I wouldn&#8217;t say
that. Work, my dear Blushweaver, is like fertilizer.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It makes people
stink?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He smiled. &#8220;Well, I
suppose though that comparison is rather valid to. No, I was
thinking that work is like fertilizer in that I&#8217;m very glad
it exists; I just don&#8217;t ever want to get stuck in
it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s
unfortunate,&#8221; Blushweaver said. &#8220;Because you just
agreed to do so.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He sighed. &#8220;I thought I
smelled something.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Don&#8217;t be so
boring,&#8221; she said, smiling to some workers as they lined her
path with vases of flowers. &#8220;This is going to be fun.&#8221;
She turned back, eyes twinkling.&#160; &#8220;Mercystar got
attacked last night.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, my dear Blushweaver.
It was positively <i>tragic</i>.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong raised an eyebrow.
Mercystar was a voluptuous woman with more weight on her than
Blushweaver. Both were, of course, perfect examples of feminine
beauty.&#160; Blushweaver was simply the lithe--yet busty--type and
Mercystar the curvaceous--yet busty--type. Mercystar lounged back
on a couch, being fanned with large fern leaves by several of her
serving men.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She didn&#8217;t have
Blushweaver&#8217;s subtle sense of style. There was a skill to
choosing bright clothing that didn&#8217;t edge into garishness.
Lightsong didn&#8217;t have it--but he had servants who did.
Mercystar, likely, didn&#8217;t know that such a skill even
existed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Though,</i> he thought,
<i>orange and gold aren&#8217;t exactly the easiest colors to make
look dignified.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Mercystar, dear,&#8221;
Blushweaver said. One of the servants provided a plush stool,
sliding it beneath Blushweaver just as she sat. &#8220;I can
understand how you must feel.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Can you?&#8221;
Mercystar asked. &#8220;Can you possibly? This is terrible. Some. .
.some <i>miscreant</i> snuck into my very home, accosting my
servants! The home of a goddess! Who would do such a
thing?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Indeed, he must have
been deranged,&#8221; Blushweaver said soothingly. Lightsong stood
beside her, hands clasped behind his back. An afternoon breeze blew
across the courtyard and through the pavilion. Some of
Blushweaver&#8217;s garden workers had brought flowers and trees
over, surrounding the canopy, making it smell of pollen.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I can&#8217;t understand
it,&#8221; Mercystar said. &#8220;The men at the gates are supposed
to stop these kinds of things! Why do we have walls if people can
just walk in and break into our homes? I just don&#8217;t feel safe
any more.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m certain the
guards will be more diligent in the future,&#8221; Blushweaver
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong frowned.&#160;
Something felt. . .off to him about the entire experience. He
glanced toward Mercystar&#8217;s mansion, where servants buzzed
about. &#8220;What was the intruder after, do you suppose?&#8221;
he said, almost to himself. &#8220;Pieces of art, perhaps? Surely
there are merchants who would be much easier to rob.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We know what they were
after,&#8221; Blushweaver said smoothly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We do?&#8221; Mercystar
said, perking up.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, dear,&#8221;
Blushweaver said. &#8220;Only someone with no respect for
tradition, propriety, or religion would dare trespass in the home
of a god. Someone base. Disrespectful.&#160; Unbelieving. . .
.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;An Idrian?&#8221;
Mercystar asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Did you ever wonder,
dear,&#8221; Blushweaver said, &#8220;why they sent their
<i>youngest</i> daughter to the God King instead of their
eldest?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Mercystar frowned.&#160;
&#8220;They did?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, dear,&#8221;
Blushweaver said. &#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s rather
suspicious now, isn&#8217;t it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Something is going on in
the Court of Gods, Mercystar,&#8221; Blushweaver said, leaning
down. &#8220;Times could be dangerous for the crown in the
future.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Blushweaver,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;Might I speak with you for a
moment?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She eyed him in annoyance. He
met the gaze, which eventually caused her to sigh. She patted
Mercystar&#8217;s hand and then retreated with Lightsong from the
pavilion, their servants and priests trailing behind.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What are you
doing?&#8221; Lightsong said as soon as they were out of
Mercystar&#8217;s earshot.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Recruitment,&#8221;
Blushweaver said, a glint in her eye. &#8220;We&#8217;re going to
need her Lifeless Commands.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We don&#8217;t know that
an Idrian was the one who broke into her palace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh?&#8221; Blushweaver
asked. &#8220;And you think it&#8217;s coincidence that this would
happen now? Someone sneaks into one of our palaces <i>now</i>, with
the war approaching?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Coincidence.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And the intruder just
<i>happened</i> to pick one of the four Returned who have Lifeless
access Commands?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong glanced back at the
palace. Blushweaver&#8217;s arguments held some merit, but. . .they
weren&#8217;t enough. He had an odd itch to look into things more.
However, that sounded like work. He couldn&#8217;t really afford to
begin involving himself in such bad habits, particularly without a
lot of complaining. It sat a poor precedent.&#160; So he just
nodded his head, and Blushweaver led them back to the pavilion.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Dear,&#8221; Blushweaver
said, sitting quickly beside Mercystar, looking a little bit more
anxious. She leaned in. &#8220;We&#8217;ve discussed and we have
decided to trust you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Mercystar sat up.&#160;
&#8220;Trust me? With what?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Knowledge,&#8221;
Blushweaver whispered. &#8220;There are those of us who are worried
that the Idrians aren&#8217;t content with their mountains and are
determined to infiltrate the lowlands as well.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But. . .we&#8217;ll be
joined by blood,&#8221; Mercystar said. &#8220;There will be a
Hallandren God King with Royal blood on our throne.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh?&#8221; Blushweaver
said. &#8220;And could that not also be interpreted as an
<i>Idris</i> king with Hallandren blood on the throne?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Mercystar wavered.&#160; Then,
oddly, she glanced at Lightsong. &#8220;Do you believe
this?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Why did people look toward him?
He did his best to discourage such behavior, but they still tended
to act like he was some kind of moral authority. &#8220;I think
that. . .preparation would be wise,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Though,
of course, the same can be said for dinner.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver shot him an annoyed
look, though by the time she looked back at Mercystar, she had her
consoling face on again. &#8220;We understand that you&#8217;ve had
a difficult day,&#8221; she said. &#8220;But please, consider our
offer. We would like you to join with us in our
preparations.&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What kind of
preparations are you talking about?&#8221; Mercystar asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Simple ones,&#8221;
Blushweaver said quickly. &#8220;Thinking, talking, planning.
Eventually, if we think we have enough evidence, we will bring what
we know to the God King.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;This seemed to ease
Mercystar&#8217;s mind. She nodded. &#8220;Yes, I can see.
Preparation. It <i>would</i> be wise.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Rest now, dear,&#8221;
Blushweaver said, rising, leading Lightsong retreated from the
pavilion. They walked leisurely across the field of grass back
toward Blushweaver&#8217;s own palace. He felt a hesitance to go,
however. Something about the meeting itched at him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;She&#8217;s a
dear,&#8221; Blushweaver said, smiling.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You just say that
because she&#8217;s easy to manipulate.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course,&#8221;
Blushweaver said. &#8220;I positively <i>love</i> people who do as
they should.&#160; &#8216;Should&#8217; being defined as whatever I
think is best.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;At least you&#8217;re
open about it,&#8221; Lightsong said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;To you, my dear,
I&#8217;m as easy to read as a book.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He snorted. &#8220;Maybe one
that hasn&#8217;t been translated to Hallandren yet.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You just say that
because you&#8217;ve never really <i>tried</i> reading me,&#8221;
she said, smiling at him. &#8220;Though, I must say that there is
one thing about dear Mercystar that positively annoys
me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And that is?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Armies,&#8221;
Blushweaver said, folding her arms. &#8220;Why did <i>she</i> get
command of ten thousand Lifeless? It&#8217;s obviously a dire error
in judgment. Particularly since I don&#8217;t have command of
<i>any</i> troops.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Blushweaver,&#8221; he
said with amusement, &#8220;you&#8217;re the Goddess of honesty,
communication, and interpersonal relationships. Why in the world
would you be given stewardship over armies?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There are lots of
interpersonal relationships related to armies,&#8221; she said.
&#8220;After all, what do you call one man hitting another with a
sword? That&#8217;s interpersonal.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m sure,&#8221;
Lightsong said, glancing back at Mercystar&#8217;s pavilion.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Now,&#8221; Blushweaver
said, &#8220;I should think that you&#8217;d appreciate my
arguments, since relationships are--in fact--war. As established by
<i>our</i> relationship, dear Lightsong.&#160; We. . . .&#8221; She
trailed off, then poked him in the shoulder. &#8220;Lightsong? Pay
attention to me!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes?&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She folded her arms petulantly.
&#8220;I must say, your banter has been decidedly weak today. I
might just have to go find someone else to play with.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Humm, yes,&#8221; he
said, studying Mercystar&#8217;s palace. &#8220;Tragic. Now, the
break in at Mercystar&#8217;s. It was just one person?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Supposedly,&#8221;
Blushweaver said. &#8220;It&#8217;s not important.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Was anyone
injured?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;A couple of
servants,&#8221; Blushweaver said with a wave of the hand.
&#8220;One was found dead. You should be paying attention to
<i>me</i>, not that--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong froze in place.
&#8220;Someone was <i>killed</i>?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shrugged. &#8220;So they
say.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He turned around.
&#8220;I&#8217;m going to go back and talk to her some
more.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Fine,&#8221; Blushweaver
snapped. &#8220;But you&#8217;ll do it without me. I have gardens
to enjoy.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;All right,&#8221;
Lightsong said, already walking. &#8220;I&#8217;ll talk to you
later.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver let out a huff of
indignation, and a piece of him could imagine her, hands on hips,
watching him go. The rest of him, however, was more focused on. . .
.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;What? So some servants had been
hurt. It wasn&#8217;t his place to be involved in criminal
disturbances.&#160; And yet, he did not slow. He walked
Mercystar&#8217;s pavilion again, his servants and priests trailing
behind.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She was still reclining on her
couch. &#8220;Lightsong?&#8221; she asked with a frown.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I. . .just returned
because I heard that one of your servants was killed in the
attack.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ah, yes,&#8221; she
said.&#160; &#8220;The poor man. What a terrible occurrence. He
will be blessed in the eternities, of course.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;How did it
happen?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s very odd,
actually,&#8221; she said. &#8220;The two guards at the door were
knocked unconscious. The intruder was discovered by four of my
servants who were walking through the service hallway. He fought
them, knocked out one, killed another, and two escaped.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What did he use?&#8221;
Lightsong asked. &#8220;How was the man killed?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Mercystar sighed. &#8220;I
really don&#8217;t know,&#8221; she said with a wave of the hand.
&#8220;My priests know more about it. I fear I am too traumatized
to pay attention to details.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Would it be all right if
I talked to the priests?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;If you must,&#8221;
Mercystar said. &#8220;Though one would think that you&#8217;d
rather stay and comfort me. Have I mentioned exactly how out of
peace I am?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My dear
Mercystar,&#8221; he said. &#8220;If you know anything of me, then
you will realize that leaving you alone is by far the best comfort
I can offer. If you wish, I shall have one of my priests throw
rocks at you--that is reportedly more pleasant than speaking with
me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She frowned, looking up.
&#8220;That. . .won&#8217;t be necessary.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It was a joke, my
dear,&#8221; he said. &#8220;I am, unfortunately, quite bad at
them. Scoot, you coming?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar, who stood--as
always--with the rest of the priests, looked over at him.
&#8220;Your grace?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No need to upset the
others any further,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;I think that you
and I alone will be sufficient for this exercise.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;As you command, your
grace,&#8221; Llarimar said. Once again, Lightsong&#8217;s servants
found themselves separated from their god. They clustered
uncertainly on the grass--like a group of children abandoned by
their parents.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What is this about, your
grace?&#8221; Llarimar asked quietly as they walked up to the
palace.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I honestly have no
idea,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;I just. . .feel like
there&#8217;s more to what is going on here. The break in. The
death of that man. Something is wrong.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar looked at him, a
strange expression on the man&#8217;s face.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221; Lightsong
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It is nothing, your
grace,&#8221; Llarimar finally said. &#8220;This is just a very odd
action for you to take.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I know,&#8221; Lightsong
said, feeling confident about the decision nonetheless. &#8220;I
honestly can&#8217;t say what prompted it. Curiosity, I
guess.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Curiosity that outweighs
your desire to avoid doing. . .well, anything at all?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong shrugged. He felt
energized as he walked into the palace. His normal lethargy
retreated, and instead he felt an excitement. Almost a familiarity.
He found a group of priests chatting inside the servant&#8217;s
corridor. Lightsong walked right up to them, and they turned to
regard him with shock.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ah, good,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;I assume you can tell me more of this break
in?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your grace,&#8221; one
said, all three bowing their heads. &#8220;I assure you, we have
everything under control. There is no danger to you or your
people.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, yes,&#8221;
Lightsong said, looking over the corridor. &#8220;Is this where the
man was killed, then?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They glanced at each other.
&#8220;Over there,&#8221; one of them reluctantly said, pointing to
a turn in the hallway.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Wonderful. Accompany me,
if you please.&#8221; Lightsong walked up to the indicated section.
A group of workers were removing the boards from the floor,
probably to be replaced.&#160; Bloodstained wood, no matter how
well-cleaned, would not do for a goddess&#8217;s home.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Hum,&#8221; Lightsong
said.&#160; &#8220;Looks messy. How did it happen?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We. . .aren&#8217;t
sure, your grace,&#8221; said one of the priests. &#8220;The
intruder knocked the men at the doorway unconscious, but did not
otherwise harm them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, Mercystar mentioned
that,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;But then he fought with four of
the servants?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well,
&#8216;fought&#8217; isn&#8217;t the right word,&#8221; the priest
said, sighing. Though he wasn&#8217;t their god, he was <i>a</i>
god. They would be bound by oath to answer his questions.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He immobilized one of
them with an Awakened rope,&#8221; the priest continued.
&#8220;Then, while one remained behind to distract the intruder,
the other two ran for aid. The intruder quickly knocked the
remaining man unconscious. At that time, the one who had been tied
up was still alive.&#8221; The priest glanced at his colleagues.
&#8220;When help finally came--delayed by a Lifeless animal that
was causing confusion--they found the one man unconscious. The
other, still tied in the rope, was dead.&#160; Stabbed through the
heart with a dueling blade.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong nodded, kneeling
beside the broken boards. The servants who had been working there
retreated, bowing their heads before him. He wasn&#8217;t certain
what he expected to find. The ground had been scrubbed clean, then
torn apart. However, there was a patch of. . .something a short
distance away. He walked over.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The wood was grayed slightly in
a patch on the floor. He knelt, inspecting it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Completely devoid of
color,</i> he thought. He looked up, focusing on the priests.
&#8220;An Awakener, you say?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Undoubtedly, your
grace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He looked back down at the grey
patch. <i>There&#8217;s little chance an Idrian did this,</i> he
realized.&#160; <i>Not if he used Awakening. And. . .what was that
about a Lifeless?</i> &#8220;What was this creature you
discovered?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;A Lifeless squirrel,
your grace,&#8221; one of the men said. &#8220;The intruder used it
as a distraction.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well made?&#8221; he
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They nodded. &#8220;Using
modern Command words,&#8221; one said, &#8220;and it even has
ichor-alcohol instead of blood. Took us the better part of the
night to catch the thing!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I see,&#8221; Lightsong
said, standing. &#8220;But the intruder escaped? Ran away, did
he?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, your grace,&#8221;
one of them said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What do you suppose he
was after?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priests wavered. &#8220;We
don&#8217;t know, your grace,&#8221; one of them said. &#8220;We
scared him away before he could obtain his goal--one of our men saw
him fleeing back out the way he had come.&#160; Apparently, the
resistance was too much for him.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We think that he must
have been a petty thief, your grace,&#8221; another said.
&#8220;Here to try and sneak into the gallery and steal the
art.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Sounds likely enough to
me,&#8221; Lightsong said, standing. &#8220;Good work with this,
and all that.&#8221; He turned, walking down the hallway. He felt a
strange sense of surrealness.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priests were lying to
him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He wasn&#8217;t even certain
how he could tell. Yet he knew it--knew it deep inside, with some
instincts he hadn&#8217;t realized that he possessed. Instead of
bothering him, for some reason the lies excited him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your grace,&#8221;
Llarimar said, hurrying up. &#8220;Did you find what you
wanted?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That was no Idrian who
broke in,&#8221; Lightsong said quietly as they walked into the
sunlight. &#8220;It was an Awakener.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar raised an eyebrow.
&#8220;There have been cases of Idrians coming to Hallandren and
buying themselves Breath, your grace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And have you ever heard
of one making a Lifeless?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar fell quiet.&#160;
&#8220;No, your grace,&#8221; he finally admitted.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Idrians hate
Lifeless.&#160; Consider them abominations, or some nonsense.
Either way, it wouldn&#8217;t make sense for an Idrian to try and
get in like that. What would be the point?&#160; Assassinating a
Returned? That would only bring retaliation.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So you believe that it
was a thief?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course not,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;A &#8216;petty thief&#8217; with enough
Breath that he can <i>waste</i> one creating a permanent Lifeless,
just for a distraction? Whoever broke in, he was already rich.
Besides, why sneak through the servant&#8217;s hallway? There are
no valuables there. The <i>inside</i> of the palace would have held
far more wealth.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar fell quiet again. He
looked over at Lightsong, that same curious expression from before
showing on his face. &#8220;That&#8217;s. . .some very clever
reasoning, your grace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I know,&#8221; Lightsong
said. &#8220;I feel positively unlike myself. Perhaps I need to go
get drunk.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You can&#8217;t get
drunk.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ah, but I certainly
enjoy trying.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They walked back toward his
palace, picking up his servants on the way. Llarimar seemed
unsettled.&#160; Lightsong, however, simply felt excited. <i>Murder
in the Court of Gods,</i> he thought. &#160;<i>True, it was only a
servant--but I&#8217;m supposed to be a God for all people, not
just important ones. I wonder how long it&#8217;s been since
someone was killed in the Court? Hasn&#8217;t happened in my
lifetime, certainly.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Those priests were hiding
things. Why had the intruder released a distraction--particularly
such an expensive one--if he was simply going to run away? The
servants of the Returned were not soldiers or warriors. So why had
he turned back so easily?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;All good questions.&#160; Good
questions that he, of all people, shouldn&#8217;t have bothered to
wonder about. And yet, he did.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;All the way back to the palace,
through a nice meal, and even into the night.</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Twenty-Four</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri&#8217;s servants clustered
around her uncertainly as she walked into the chaotic room. She
wore a blue and white gown with a ten-foot train. Scribes and
priests looked up in shock; some immediately scrambled to their
feet, bowing. Others just stared as she passed, her serving women
doing their best to hold her train in a dignified manner.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri continued, determined,
through the chamber--which seemed more like a hallway than a proper
room. Tables lined the walls, stacks of paper cluttered those
tables, and scribes--some in brown, some in the day&#8217;s
colors--worked the papers. The walls were, of course, black.
Colored rooms were only in the center of the palace, where the God
King and Siri spent most of their time. Separately, of course.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Though, things are a little
different at night,</i> she thought, smiling. It felt very. .
.conspiratorial of her to be teaching him letters. She had a secret
that she was keeping from the rest of the kingdom, a secret that
involved one of the most powerful men in the entire world. That
gave her a thrill.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She supposed that she should
have been more worried. At times--when she was more thoughtful--the
reality of Bluefingers&#8217; warnings did worry her. That&#8217;s
why she had come to the scribes&#8217; quarters.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I wonder why the bed chamber
is out here,</i> she thought. <i>Outside the main body of the
palace, in the black part.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Either way, the servants&#8217;
section of the palace--God King&#8217;s bedchamber excluded--was
the last place that the scribes expected to be disturbed by their
queen. Siri noticed that some of her serving women shot apologetic
glances at the men in the room as Siri arrived at the doors on the
other side. A servant pushed open the door for her, and she entered
the room beyond.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A group of priests stood
leafing through books in the medium sized chamber. They looked over
at her. One dropped his book to the floor in shock.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I,&#8221; Siri
proclaimed, &#8220;want some books!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priests stared at her.
&#8220;Books?&#8221; one finally asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; Siri said,
hands on hips. &#8220;This is the palace library, is it
not?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, yes,&#8221; the
priest said, glancing at his companions. All wore the robes of
their office, and this day&#8217;s colors were violet and
silver.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, then,&#8221; Siri
said. &#8220;I&#8217;d like to take some of the books. I am bored
with normal entertainment and shall be reading to myself in my
spare time.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Surely you don&#8217;t
want <i>these</i> books, Vessel,&#8221; another priest said.
&#8220;They are about boring topics like religion or city finances.
Surely a book of stories would be more appropriate.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri raised an eyebrow.
&#8220;And where might I find such a &#8216;more appropriate&#8217;
volume?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We could have a reader
bring the book from the city collection,&#8221; the priest said,
stepping forward with a smooth gait. &#8220;He&#8217;d be here
shortly.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri hesitated.
&#8220;No.&#160; I do not think I like that option. I shall take
some of these books here.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No, you shall
not,&#8221; a new voice said from behind.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri turned. Tridees, High
Priest of the God King, stood behind her, fingers laced, miter on
his head, frown on his face.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You cannot refuse
me,&#8221; Siri said. &#8220;I am your queen.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I can and <i>will</i>
refuse you, Vessel,&#8221; Tridees said. &#8220;You see, these
books are quite valuable, and should something happen to them, the
kingdom would suffer grave consequences. Even our priests are not
allowed to bear them out of the room.&#8221;&#160; He paused, eying
her. &#8220;If you absolutely must read them, you can stay in here
and do it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She glanced at the room and
thought of the stuffy priests standing in a flock around her,
listening to her sound out words, making a fool of herself.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Are there any books on
history?&#8221; she asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Alas, Vessel,&#8221;
Tridees said. &#8220;Those are kept in the city collection. We
could have a reader come and--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; Siri
said.&#160; &#8220;Perhaps another time.&#8221; She eyed the stacks
on shelves. There weren&#8217;t as many as she had expected, but
still, she was so close. . . . &#8220;And if I ordered you to let
me take some of these?&#8221; she said to Tridees.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You are our queen,
Vessel,&#8221; he said. &#8220;But you are <i>not</i> Returned.
These are the property of a god. Susebron has made it clear that he
wishes the books to stay here.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Oh he has, has he?</i> Siri
thought, remembering her conversation--written, halting, yet
open--with the God King the night before. He was getting quite good
at his letters. For Tridees and the priests, having a tongueless
god was very convenient. The priests could claim that he&#8217;d
told them whatever seemed good at the moment, and he could never
correct them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;ll be going,
then,&#8221; she said, trailing out of the cramped room.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I told you that they would
not let you have the books,</i> the God King wrote.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri rolled her eyes.&#160;
Flopping back on the bed. She still wore her bulky evening dress.
For some reason, being able to communicate with the God King made
her even more shy.&#160; She only took off the dresses right before
she went to sleep--which, lately, was getting later and later.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She looked up.&#160; Susebron
sat in his usual place--not on the mattress, as he had that first
night. Instead, he had pulled his chair up beside the bed. He still
seemed so large and imposing. At least, he did until he looked at
her, his face open, honest. He waved her back toward him where he
sat with a board, writing with a bit of charcoal that she&#8217;d
smuggled in.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You shud not anger the
prests so,</i> he wrote. His spelling, as one might expect, was
awful.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Priests. She had pilfered a cup
then had hidden in the room. If she used it and listened against
the wall, she could sometimes faintly hear talking on the other
sides.&#160; After she did her nightly moaning show, she could
usually hear chairs moving and a door closing. After that, it grew
silent in the room.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Either the priests left each
night once they were sure the deed was done or they were suspicious
and trying to fool her into thinking they were gone. Her instinct
said the former, though she made certain to whisper when she spoke
to the God King, just in case.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Siri?</i> he wrote.&#160;
<i>What are you thinking about?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your priests,&#8221; she
whispered.&#160; &#8220;They frustrate me! They intentionally do
things to spite me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>They are good men,</i> he
wrote. <i>They work very hard to mayntayn my kingdom.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They cut out your
tongue,&#8221; she said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The God King sat quietly for a
few moments. <i>It was nesisary,</i> he wrote. <i>I have too much
power.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She moved over. As usual, he
shied back when she approached, moving his arm out of the way,
keeping her from touching him. There was no arrogance in the
posture. She was beginning to think that he just had very little
experience with touching.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Susebron,&#8221; she
whispered.&#160; &#8220;These men, they are <i>not</i> looking
after your best interests. They did more than cut out your tongue.
They refused to teach you to read and they speak in your name,
doing whatever they please.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>They are not my enemes,</i>
he wrote stubbornly. <i>They are good men.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh?&#8221; she said.
&#8220;And then why do you hide from them the fact that
you&#8217;re learning to read?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He paused again, glancing
downward.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>So much humility for one who
has ruled Hallandren for fifty years,</i> she thought. <i>In many
ways, he&#8217;s like a child.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I do not want them to
no</i>, he finally wrote. <i>I do not want to upset them.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m sure,&#8221;
Siri said flatly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He paused. <i>You are shur?</i>
he wrote. <i>Does that mean you beleve me?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; Siri said.
&#8220;That was sarcasm, Susebron.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He frowned. <i>I do not know
this thing. Sarkazm.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Sarcasm,&#8221; she
said, spelling it. &#8220;It&#8217;s. . . .&#8221; she trailed off.
&#8220;It&#8217;s when you say one thing, but you mean the
opposite.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He frowned at her, then
furiously erased his board and began writing again. <i>This thing
makes no sense. Why not say what you mean?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Because,&#8221; Siri
said.&#160; &#8220;It&#8217;s just like. . .oh, I don&#8217;t know.
It&#8217;s a way to be clever when you make fun of
people.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Make fun of people?</i> he
wrote.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>God of Colors!</i> Siri
thought, trying to think of how to explain. It seemed ridiculous to
her that he would know nothing of mockery. And yet, he had lived
his entire life as a revered deity and monarch. &#8220;Mockery is
when you. . .say things to tease,&#8221; Siri said. &#8220;Things
that might be hurtful to someone, but you say them in an
affectionate or in a playful way. Sometimes you <i>do</i> just say
them to be mean. Sarcasm is one of the ways we mock--we say the
opposite, but in an exaggerated way.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>How do you know if the
person is affekshonate, playful, or mean?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t
know,&#8221; Siri said. &#8220;It&#8217;s the way they say it, I
guess.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The God King sat, looking
confused but thoughtful. <i>You are very normal,</i> he finally
wrote.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri frowned. &#8220;Um.&#160;
Thank you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Was that good sarcasm?</i>
he wrote. <i>Because in reality, you are quite strange.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She smiled. &#8220;I try my
best.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He looked up.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That was sarcasm
again,&#8221; she said. &#8220;I don&#8217;t &#8216;try&#8217; to
be strange. It just happens.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He looked at her. How had she
ever been frightened of this man? How had she misunderstood? The
look in his eyes, it wasn&#8217;t arrogance or emotionlessness. It
was the look of a man who was trying very hard to understand the
world around him. Earnestness.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;However, he was not simple. The
speed at which he&#8217;d learned to write proved that. True,
he&#8217;d already understood the spoken portion of the
language--and he&#8217;d memorized all of the letters in the book
years before meeting her. &#160;She&#8217;d only needed explain the
rules of spelling and sound for him to make the final jump.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She still found it amazing how
quickly he picked things up. She smiled at him, and he hesitantly
smiled back.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why do you say that
I&#8217;m strange?&#8221; she asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You do not do things like
other people,</i> he wrote. <i>Everyone else bows before me all of
the time. Nobody talks to me. &#160;Even the priests, they only
okashonally give me instrukshons--and this they haven&#8217;t done
in years.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Does it offend you that
I don&#8217;t bow, and that I talk to you like a friend?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He erased his board. <i>Offend
me? Why would it offend me? Do you do it in sarcasm?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; she said
quickly. &#8220;I really like talking to you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Then I do not
understand.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Everyone else is afraid
of you,&#8221; Siri said. &#8220;Because of how powerful you
are.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>But they took away my tongue
to make me safe.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s not your
Breath that scares them,&#8221; Siri said. &#8220;It&#8217;s your
power over armies and people. You&#8217;re the God King. You could
order anyone in the kingdom killed.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>But why would I do that?</i>
he wrote. <i>I would not kill a good person. They must know
that.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri sat back, resting on the
plush bed, fire crackling in the hearth behind them. &#8220;I know
that, now,&#8221; she said. &#8220;But nobody else does. They
don&#8217;t know you, but they know how powerful you are. So they
fear you. And so they show their respect for you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He paused. <i>And so, you do
not respect me?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course I do,&#8221;
she said, sighing. &#8220;I&#8217;ve just never been very good at
following rules. In fact, if someone tells me what to do, I usually
want to do the opposite.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>That is very strange,</i> he
wrote. <i>I thought all people did what they were told.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I think you&#8217;ll
find that most do not,&#8221; she said, smiling.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>That will get you into
trouble.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Is that what the priests
taught you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shook his head, then he
reached over and took out his book. The book of stories for
children. He brought it with him always, and she could see from his
reverent touch that he valued it greatly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>It&#8217;s probably his only
real possession,</i> she thought. <i>Everything else is taken from
him every day, then replaced the next morning.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>This book,</i> he wrote.
<i>My mother read the stories to me when I was a child. I memorized
them all, before she was taken away. It speaks of many children who
do not do as they are told. They are often eaten by
monsters.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh are they?&#8221; Siri
said, smiling.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Do not be afraid</i>, he
wrote. <i>My mother taught me that the monsters are not real. But I
remember the lessons the stories taught. Obediance is good. You
should treat people well. Do not go into the jungle by yourself. Do
not lie. Do not hurt others.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri&#8217;s smile
deepened.&#160; All of the learning in his life, he&#8217;d either
received from moralistic folk tales or from priests who were
teaching him to be a figurehead. Once she realized that, the
honest, uncomplicated man that he had become was not so difficult
to understand.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Yet what had prompted him to
break that learning and ask her to teach him? Why was he was
willing to keep his learning secret from the men he had been taught
all of his life to obey and trust? He was not so innocent as he
appeared.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;These stories,&#8221;
she said. &#8220;Your desire to treat people well. Is that what
kept you from. . .taking me on any of those nights when I first
came into the room?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>From taking you? I do not
understand.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri blushed, hair turning red
to match. &#8220;I mean. . .why did you just sit there?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Because I did not know what
else to do,</i> he said. <i>I knew that we need to have a child. So
I sat and waited for it to happen. We must be doing something
wrong, for no child has come.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri paused, then blinked. He
couldn&#8217;t possibly. . . . &#8220;You don&#8217;t know how to
have children?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>In the stories,</i> he
wrote, <i>a man and a woman spend the night together. Then they
have a child. We spent many nights together, and there were no
children.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And nobody--none of your
priests--explained the process to you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>No. What process do you
mean?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She sat for a moment.
<i>No,</i> she thought, feeling her blush deepen. <i>I am</i> not
<i>going to have that conversation with him.</i> &#160;&#8220;I
think we&#8217;ll talk about it another time.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>It was a very strange
experiance when you came into the room that first night,</i> he
wrote.&#160; <i>I must admit, I was very scared of you.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri smiled as she remembered
her own terror. It hadn&#8217;t even occurred to her that he would
be frightened. Why would it have? He was the God King.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So,&#8221; she said,
tapping the bedspread with one finger, &#8220;you were never taken
to other women?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>No,</i> he wrote. <i>I did
find it very interesting to see you naked.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She flushed again, though her
hair had long decided to just stay red. &#8220;That&#8217;s not
what we&#8217;re talking about right now,&#8221; she said. &#8220;I
want to know about other women. No mistresses? No
concubines?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>No.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They really are scared
of you having a child.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Why say that?</i> he wrote.
<i>They sent you to me.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Only after fifty years
of rule,&#8221; she said. &#8220;And only under very controlled
circumstances, with the proper linage to make a child with the
right bloodline. Bluefingers thinks that child might be a danger to
us.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I do not understand why,</i>
he wrote. <i>This is what everyone wants. There must be an
heir.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why?&#8221; Siri said.
&#8220;You still look like you&#8217;re barely two decades old. You
don&#8217;t seem to be aging very quickly because of your
BioChroma.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Without an heir, the kingdom
is in danger. Should I be killed, there will be nobody to
rule.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And that wasn&#8217;t a
danger for the last fifty years?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He paused, frowning, then
slowly erased his board.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They must think that
you&#8217;re in danger now,&#8221; she said slowly. &#8220;But not
from sickness--even I know that Returned don&#8217;t suffer from
diseases. In fact, do they even age at all?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I don&#8217;t think so,</i>
the God King wrote.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;How did the other God
Kings die?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>There have only been
four,</i> he wrote. <i>I do not know how they died for
certain.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Only four kings in
several hundred years, dead of mysterious circumstances. . .
.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>My father died before I was
old enough to remember him,</i> Susebron wrote. <i>I was told he
gave his life for the kingdom--that he released his BioChromatic
Breath, like all Returned can, to cure a terrible disease. Regular
Returned can only cure one person. A God King, however, can cure
many. That is what I was told.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There must be a record
of that then,&#8221; she said. &#8220;Somewhere in those books the
priests have guarded up so tightly.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I am sorry that they would
not let you read them,</i> he wrote.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She waved an indifferent hand.
&#8220;It was a long shot. I&#8217;ll need to find another way to
get at those histories.&#8221; <i>Having a child</i> is <i>the
danger,</i> she thought. <i>That&#8217;s what Bluefingers said. So.
. .whatever threat there is to my life, it will only come after
there is an heir.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Bluefingers mentioned a
threat to the God King too. That almost makes it sound like the
danger comes from the priests themselves. What reason would they
have to want to harm their own God?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She glanced at Susebron, who
was flipping intently through his book of stories. She smiled at
the look of concentration on his face as he deciphered the
text.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Well,</i> she thought,
<i>considering what he knows of sex, I&#8217;d say that we
don&#8217;t have to worry much about having a child in the near
future.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Of course, she was growing more
and more worried that the lack of a child would prove just as
dangerous as the presence of one.</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Twenty-Five</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna went among the people
of T&#8217;Telir and couldn&#8217;t help feeling that every one of
them recognized her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She fought that feeling down.
It was a miracle that Thame--who had come from her own home
city--had recognized her. Even if the people around her would have
no way of connecting Vivenna to the rumors, particularly
considering her clothing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Immodest reds and yellows
layered one atop another on her dress. The garment had been the
only one that Parlin and Tonk Fah had been able to find that met
her stringent requirements for neckline and hem. The tube-like in
dress was after a foreign cut, from across the Inner Sea. It came
down almost to her ankles, and though it was exposingly tight
through the bust, the cloth covered her almost up to the neck, and
had full sleeves.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Rebelliously, she did find
herself shooting glances at the other women in their loose, short
skirts and sleeveless tops. That much skin was scandalous, but with
the blazing sun and the cursed lowland humidity, she could see why
they did it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;After a month in the city, she
also beginning to get the hang of moving with the flow of traffic.
She still wasn&#8217;t sure she wanted to be out. But, Denth had
been persuasive.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You know the worst thing
that can happen to a bodyguard?</i> he had asked. <i>Letting your
charge get killed when you aren&#8217;t even there. We have a small
team, Princess. We can either divide and leave you behind with one
guard or you can come with us.&#160; Personally, I&#8217;d like too
keep you where I can keep an eye on you.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And so she&#8217;d come.&#160;
Dressed in one of her new gowns, hair turned an uncomfortable--yet
un-Idrian--yellow, and left loose, blowing behind her. She walked
around the square, as if out on a stroll, moving so that she
wouldn&#8217;t look nervous. The location was a city garden square.
The people of T&#8217;Telir liked gardens--they had all kinds of
them all over the city. In fact, from what Vivenna had seen, most
of the city practically <i>was</i> a garden. Palms and ferns grew
on every street, and exotic flowers bloomed year round.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Near her four streets crossed,
with four plots of cultivated ground forming a checker-board
pattern.&#160; A circular plot of ground in the center sprouted
with a dozen different palms.&#160; The buildings surrounding the
gardens were more rich than the ones in the market up the way. And
while there was a lot of foot traffic, people made certain to stick
to the sidewalks, for carriages were common. This was an upscale
shopping district. No tents. Fewer performers. Higher quality--and
more expensive--shops.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna strolled along the
perimeter of the northwestern garden block. There were ferns and
grass to her right. Shops of a quaint, rich, and--of
course--colorful variety lay across the street to her left. Tonk
Fah and Parlin lounged between two of these. Parlin had the monkey
on his shoulder, and had taken to wearing a colorful red vest with
his green hat. &#160;She couldn&#8217;t help thinking that the
woodsman was even more out of place in T&#8217;Telir than she was,
but he didn&#8217;t seem to attack any attention.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna kept walking.&#160;
Jewels trailed her somewhere in the crowd. The woman was quite
good--Vivenna only rarely caught a glimpse of her, and that was
because she&#8217;d been told where to look. She never saw Denth.
He was there somewhere, far too subtle for her to spot. As she
reached the end of the street and turned around to walk back, she
did catch sight of Clod. The Lifeless stood, standing as still as
one of the D&#8217;Denir statues that lined the gardens, watching
the crowds pass. Most of the people ignored him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth was right. Lifeless
weren&#8217;t plentiful, but they also weren&#8217;t uncommon.
Several walked the market carrying bags for their owners. &#160;Few
of these were as muscular or as tall as Clod--apparently, Lifeless
came in as many shapes and sizes as people. They were put to work
guarding shops. Acting as packmen. Sweeping the walkway.&#160; All
around her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She continued to walk, and she
caught a brief glimpse of Jewels in the crowd as she passed. <i>How
does she manage to look so relaxed?</i> Vivenna thought. Each of
the mercenaries looked as relaxed and calm as if they were having a
leisurely picnic meal.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Don&#8217;t think about the
danger,</i> Vivenna thought, clinching her fists. She focused on
the gardens. The truth was, she was a little jealous of the
T&#8217;Telir. People lounged, sitting on the grass, lying in the
shade of trees, their children playing and laughing. D&#8217;Denir
statues ran in a solemn line, arms out raised, weapons at the
ready, as if in defense of the people. Trees climbed high into the
sky, throwing forth branches which grew strange flower-like
bundles.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Wide-pedaled flowers bloomed in
planters; several patches of them were actually Tears of Edgli.
Austre had placed the flowers where he wanted them. To bring them
back, to use them to adorn a room or house, was to seek
ostentation. Yet was it ostentatious to plant them in the middle of
the city, where all were free to enjoy them?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She turned away. Her BioChroma
continued to sense the beauty. The compact life, so much in one
area, was like a buzz inside of her chest.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>No wonder they like to live
so close together,</i> she thought, noticing how a group of flowers
scaled in color, fanning toward the inside of their planter. <i>And
if you&#8217;re going to live this compactly, the only way to see
nature would be to bring it in.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Help! Fire!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna spun, as did most of
the other people on the street. The building Tonk Fah and Parlin
had been standing next to was burning. Vivenna didn&#8217;t
continue to gawk, but turned and looked toward the center of the
gardens. Most of the people in the garden itself were stunned,
looking toward the smoke billowing into the air.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Distraction one.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;People ran to help, crossing
the street, causing carriages to pull up shortly. At that moment,
Clod stepped forward--surging with the crowd--and swung a club at
the leg of a horse. Vivenna couldn&#8217;t hear the leg break, but
she did see the beast scream and fall, upsetting the carriage it
had been pulling. A trunk fell from the top of the vehicle,
plunging to the street.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The carriage belonged to one
Nanrovah, high priest of the God Stillmark. Denth&#8217;s
intelligence said the carriage would be carrying valuables. Even if
it wasn&#8217;t, a high priest in danger would draw a lot of
attention. The trunk hit the street. And, in a twist of good
fortune, it shattered, spraying out gold coins.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Distraction two.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna caught a glimpse of
Jewels standing on the other side of the carriage. She looked at
Vivenna and nodded. Time to go. As people either ran toward gold or
fire, Vivenna walked away. Nearby, Denth would be raiding one of
the shops with a gang of thieves. The thieves got to keep the
goods. Vivenna just wanted to make certain those goods
disappeared.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna was joined by Jewels
and Parlin on the way out. She was surprised to feel how quickly
her heart was thumping. Almost nothing had happened. No real
danger. No threat to herself. Just a couple of accidents.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But, then, that was the
idea.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hours later, Denth and Tonk Fah
still hadn&#8217;t returned to the house. Vivenna sat quietly on
their new furniture, hands in her lap. The furniture was green.
Apparently, brown was not an option in T&#8217;Telir.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What time is it?&#8221;
Vivenna asked quietly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t
know,&#8221; Jewels snapped, standing beside the window, looking
out at the street.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Patience,</i> Vivenna told
herself. <i>It&#8217;s not her fault she&#8217;s so abrasive. She
had her Breath stolen.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Should they be back
yet?&#8221; Vivenna asked calmly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Jewels shrugged.&#160;
&#8220;Maybe. Depends on if they decided to go to a safe house to
let things cool down or not.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I see. How long do you
think we should wait?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;As long as we have
to,&#8221; Jewels said. &#8220;Look, do you think you could just
not talk to me? I&#8217;d really appreciate it.&#8221; She turned
back to look out the window.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna stiffened at the
insult. <i>Patience!</i> she told herself. <i>Understand her
place.&#160; That&#8217;s what the Five Visions teach.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna stood u, then walked
quietly over to Jewels. Tentatively, she laid an arm on the other
woman&#8217;s shoulder. Jewels jumped immediately--obviously,
without Breath, it was harder for her to notice when people
approached her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s all
right,&#8221; Vivenna said. &#8220;I understand.&#8221; &#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Understand?&#8221;
Jewels asked. &#8220;Understand what.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They took your
Breath,&#8221; Vivenna said. &#8220;They had no right to do
something so terrible.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna smiled, then withdrew,
walking to the stairs.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Jewels started laughing.
Vivenna stopped, glancing back.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You think you
<i>understand</i> me?&#8221; Jewels asked. &#8220;What? You feel
sorry for me because I&#8217;m a Drab?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your parents
shouldn&#8217;t have done what they did.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My parents served our
God King,&#8221; Jewels said. &#8220;My Breath was given to him
directly. It&#8217;s a greater honor than you could possibly
understand.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna stood quietly for a
moment, absorbing that comment. &#8220;You <i>believe</i> in the
Iridescent Tones?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course I do,&#8221;
Jewels said. &#8220;I&#8217;m a Hallandren, aren&#8217;t
I?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But the
others--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Tonk Fah is from Pahn
Kahl,&#8221; Jewels said. &#8220;And I don&#8217;t know where in
the Colors <i>Denth</i> is from. But I&#8217;m from T&#8217;Telir
itself.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But surely you
can&#8217;t still worship those. . .gods,&#8221; Vivenna said.
&#8220;Not after what was done to you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What was done to me?
Well, Princess perfect, I&#8217;ll have you know that I gave away
my breath willingly.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You were a
child!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I was eleven and my
parents gave me the choice. I made the right one. My father had
been in the dye industry, but had slipped and fallen. The damage to
his back wouldn&#8217;t let him work, and my family had six
children. By selling my Breath, we got enough money to live for
nearly a year!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No price is worth a
soul,&#8221; Vivenna said. &#8220;You--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Stop judging me!&#8221;
Jewels snapped. &#8220;You don&#8217;t know anything, little
Idrian. Do you know what it&#8217;s like to watch your brothers and
sisters starve? My parents had already sold their Breath to get
enough money to start the business, years before. But it was more
than that. I was <i>proud</i> to sell my breath! I still am. A
piece of me lives inside of the God King. Because of me, he
continues to live.&#160; I&#8217;m <i>part</i> of this kingdom in a
way that few others are.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Jewels shook her head, turning
away. &#8220;That&#8217;s why we get annoyed by you Idrians. So
high. So certain that what you do is <i>right</i>. If your God
asked you to give up your Breath--or even the Breath of your
child--wouldn&#8217;t you do it? You give up your children to
become monks, forcing them into a life of servitude. That&#8217;s
seen as a sign of faith. Yet when we do something to revere
<i>our</i> gods, you twist your lips at us and call us
blasphemers.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna opened her mouth, but
could come up with no response to that. Sending children away to
become monks was different.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We sacrifice for our
Gods,&#8221; Jewels said, still staring out the window. &#8220;But
that doesn&#8217;t mean we&#8217;re being exploited. My family was
blessed because of what we did. Not only was there enough money to
buy food, but my father recovered, and a few years later, he was
able to open up the business again. My brothers still run it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You don&#8217;t have to
believe in my miracles. You can call them coincidences, if you
must. But don&#8217;t pity me for my faith. And don&#8217;t presume
that you&#8217;re better, just because you believe something
different.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna closed her mouth.
Obviously, there was no point in arguing. Jewels was in no mood to
receive sympathy. Vivenna retreated back up the stairs.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A few hours later, it began to
grow dark. Vivenna stood on the house&#8217;s second-story balcony,
looking out over the city. Most of the buildings on her street row
had such balconies on the front. Ostentatious or not, they did
provide a good view of T&#8217;Telir.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The city glowed with light. On
the larger streets, lamps lined the sidewalks, lit each night by
city workers. Many of the buildings glowed as well. Such
expenditure of oil and candles still amazed her. Yet with the inner
sea so close, oil was far cheaper than it was in the highlands.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She didn&#8217;t know what to
make of Jewels&#8217; outburst. How could someone be <i>proud</i>
that their Breath had been stolen then fed to a greedy Returned?
The woman&#8217;s tone seemed to indicate that she was being
honest. She&#8217;d obviously thought about these things before.
Had she, perhaps, had to rationalize them inside of her?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna was caught.&#160; The
Five Visions taught her to understand others. They told her not to
place herself above others. And yet, Austrism taught that what
Jewels had done was an abomination.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The two seemed contradictory.
To believe that Jewels was wrong was to place herself above the
woman. Yet to accept what Jewels said was to deny Austrism. Perhaps
another might have laughed at the turmoil, but Vivenna had always
tried so hard to be devout. She&#8217;d known she&#8217;d need
devotion to survive in heathen Hallandren.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Heathen. Wasn&#8217;t calling
it heathen to place herself above it? But they <i>were</i>
heathen.&#160; She couldn&#8217;t accept the Returned as true gods.
It seemed that to believe in any faith was to become arrogant.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Perhaps she deserved the things
Jewels had said about her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Someone approached.&#160;
Vivenna turned as Denth pushed open the wooden door and stepped out
onto the balcony. &#8220;We&#8217;re back,&#8221; he noted.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I know,&#8221; she said,
looking out over the city and its specks of light. &#8220;I felt
you enter the building a little while ago.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He chuckled, joining her.
&#8220;I forget that you have so much Breath, princess. You never
use it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Except to feel when people
are nearby,</i> she thought. <i>But I can&#8217;t help that, can
I?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I recognize that
look,&#8221; Denth noted. &#8220;Frustration. Still worried that
the plan isn&#8217;t working fast enough?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shook her head.&#160;
&#8220;Other things entirely, Denth.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Probably shouldn&#8217;t
have left you alone so long with Jewels. I hope she didn&#8217;t
take <i>too</i> many bites out of you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna didn&#8217;t respond.
Finally, she sighed, then turned toward him. &#8220;How did the job
go?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Perfectly,&#8221; Denth
said. &#8220;By the time we hit the shop, <i>nobody</i> was
looking. Considering the guards they put there every night, they
must be feeling pretty stupid to have been robbed in the middle of
the day.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I still don&#8217;t
understand what good it will do,&#8221; she said. &#8220;A spice
merchant&#8217;s shop?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Not his shop,&#8221;
Denth said. &#8220;His storages. We ruined or carted off every
barrel of salt in that cellar. He&#8217;s one of only three men who
store salt in any great amount; most of the other spice merchants
buy from him.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, but salt,&#8221;
Vivenna said. &#8220;What&#8217;s the point?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;How hot was it
today?&#8221; Denth asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna shrugged. &#8220;Too
hot.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What happens to meat
when it&#8217;s hot?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It rots,&#8221; Vivenna
said. &#8220;But they don&#8217;t have to use salt to preserve
meat. They can use. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Cold?&#8221; Denth
asked, chuckling. &#8220;No, not down here, princess. You want to
preserve meat, you salt it. And if you want an army to carry fish
with them from the inner sea to attack a place as far away as
Idris. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna smiled.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The thieves we worked
with will ship the salt away,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;Smuggle it
to the distant kingdoms where it can be sold openly. By the time
this war comes, the crown will have some real trouble keeping its
men supplied with meat. Another small strike, but those should add
up.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Thank you,&#8221;
Vivenna said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Don&#8217;t thank
us,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;Just pay us.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna nodded. They fell
silent for a time, watching out over the city.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Does Jewels really
believe in the Iridescent Tones?&#8221; Vivenna finally asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;As passionately as Tonk
Fah likes to nap,&#8221; Denth said. He eyed her. &#8220;You
didn&#8217;t challenge her, did you?&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Kind of.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth whistled. &#8220;And
you&#8217;re still standing? I&#8217;ll have to thank her for her
restraint.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;How can she
believe?&#8221; Vivenna said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth shrugged. &#8220;Seems
like a good enough religion to me. I mean, you can go and
<i>see</i> her gods.&#160; Talk to them, watch them shine.
Isn&#8217;t all that tough to understand.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But she&#8217;s working
for an Idrian,&#8221; Vivenna said. &#8220;Working to undermine her
own Gods&#8217; ability to wage war. That was a
<i>priest&#8217;s</i> carriage we knocked over today.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And a fairly important
one, actually,&#8221; Denth said with a chuckle. &#8220;Ah,
princess. It&#8217;s a little difficult to understand. Mindset of a
mercenary. We&#8217;re paid to do things--but we&#8217;re
<i>not</i> the ones doing them. It&#8217;s you who do these things.
We&#8217;re just your tools.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Tools that work against
the Hallandren Gods.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That isn&#8217;t a
reason to stop believing,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;We get pretty
good at separating ourselves from the things we have to do. Maybe
that&#8217;s what makes people hate us so much.&#160; They
can&#8217;t see that if we kill a friend on a battlefield, it
doesn&#8217;t mean that we&#8217;re callous or untrustworthy. We do
what we&#8217;re paid to do. Just like anyone else.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s
different,&#8221; Vivenna said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth shrugged. &#8220;Do you
think that the metallurgist fears that the iron he purifies will
end up making a sword that kills a friend of his?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna stared out over the
lights of the city with all of its people moving about. With all of
their different beliefs, different ways of thinking, different
contradictions.&#160; Perhaps she wasn&#8217;t the only one who
struggled to believe two seemingly opposing things at the same
time.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What about you,
Denth?&#8221; she asked. &#8220;Are you Hallandren?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Gods, no,&#8221; he
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then what do you
believe?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Haven&#8217;t believed
much,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Not in a long time.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What about your
family?&#8221; Vivenna asked. &#8220;What did they
believe?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Family&#8217;s all
dead.&#160; They believed faiths that most everybody has forgotten
by now. I never joined them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna frowned. &#8220;You
have to believe in something. If not a religion, then somebody. A
way of living.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I did once.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Do you always have to
answer everything so vaguely?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He glanced at her.&#160;
&#8220;Yes,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Except, perhaps, for that
question.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She rolled her eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He leaned against the banister.
&#8220;The things I believed,&#8221; he said, &#8220;I don&#8217;t
know that they&#8217;d make sense, or that you&#8217;d even hear me
out if I told you about them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You claim to follow
money,&#8221; she said. &#8220;But you don&#8217;t. I&#8217;ve seen
Lemks&#8217; ledgers. He wasn&#8217;t paying you that much. Not by
far as much as I&#8217;d assumed. And, if you&#8217;d wanted, you
could have hit that priest&#8217;s carriage and taken the money.
You could have stolen it twice as easily as you did the
salt.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He didn&#8217;t respond.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You don&#8217;t follow
any kingdom or king I can figure out,&#8221; she continued.
&#8220;You&#8217;re a better swordsman than any simple bodyguard--I
suspect better than almost anyone, if you can impress a crime boss
with your skill so easily. You could have fame, students, and
prizes if you decided to become a sport duelist.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You claim to listen to
your employer,&#8221; she continued, &#8220;but it seems you give
the orders more often than take them--and plus, since you
don&#8217;t care about money, that whole employer thing is probably
just a front.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She paused. &#8220;In
fact,&#8221; she said, &#8220;the only thing I&#8217;ve ever seen
you express even half an emotion about is that man. Vasher. The one
with the sword.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Even as she said the name,
Denth grew more tense.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Who <i>are</i>
you?&#8221; she asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He turned toward her, eyes
hard, showing her--once again--that the jovial man he kept outside
was a mask. A charade. A softness to cover the rock within.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m a
mercenary,&#8221; he said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;All right,&#8221; she
said, &#8220;then who <i>were</i> you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You don&#8217;t want to
know the answer to that,&#8221; he said. And then he left, stomping
away through the door and leaving her alone on the dark wooden
balcony.</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Twenty-Six</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong awoke and climbed
immediately from bed. He stood up, stretched, and smiled.
&#8220;Beautiful day,&#8221; he said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;His servants stood at the edges
of the room, watching uncertainly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221; Lightsong
asked, holding out his arms. &#8220;Come on, let&#8217;s get
dressed.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They rushed forward.&#160;
Llarimar entered a shortly. Lightsong often wondered how early he
got up, since he was always there, dressed and ready, each morning
when Lightsong rose.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar watched him with a
raised eyebrow. &#8220;You&#8217;re. . .chipper this morning, your
grace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong shrugged.&#160;
&#8220;It just felt like it was time to get up.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;A full hour earlier than
usual.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong cocked his head as
the servants tied off his robes. &#8220;Really?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, your
grace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Fancy that,&#8221;
Lightsong said, nodding to his servants as they stepped back,
leaving him dressed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Shall we go over your
dreams, then?&#8221; Llarimar asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong paused, an image
flashing in his head. Rain. Tempest. Storms. And a brilliant red
panther.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Nope,&#8221; Lightsong
said, walking toward the doorway.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your grace. . .
.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We&#8217;ll talk about
the dreams another time, Scoot,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;We
have more important work.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;More important
work?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong smiled, reaching the
doorway and turning back. &#8220;I want to go back to
Mercystar&#8217;s palace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Whatever for?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t
know,&#8221; Lightsong said happily.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar sighed. &#8220;Very
well, your grace. But can we at least look over some art, first?
There are people who paid good money to get your opinion, and some
are waiting quite eagerly to hear what you think of their
pieces.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;All right,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;But let&#8217;s be quick about
it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong stared at the
painting.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Red upon red, shades so subtle
that the painter must have been of the First Heightening at
least.&#160; Violent, terrible reds, clashing against each other
like waves--waves that only vaguely resembled men, yet somehow
managed to get across the idea of armies fighting much better than
any detailed representation could have.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Chaos. Bloody wounds upon
bloody uniforms upon bloody skin. There was so much violence in
red. His own color. He almost felt as if he were in the
painting--felt its turmoil shaking him, disorienting him,
<i>pulling</i> on him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The waves of men pointed toward
one figure at the center. A woman, vaguely depicted by a couple of
brush strokes with too many curves. And yet it was obvious. She
stood high, as if atop a crest formed by crashing soldiers, in a
posture of motion, head flung back, hand upraised.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Holding a deep black sword that
darkened the red sky around it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The battle of Twilight
Falls,&#8221; Llarimar said quietly, standing beside him in the
white hallway. &#8220;Last conflict of the Manywar.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong nodded. He&#8217;d
known that, somehow. The faces of many of the soldiers were tinged
with grey.&#160; Lifeless. The Manywar had marked the first time
they had been used in large numbers on the battlefield.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I know you don&#8217;t
prefer war scenes,&#8221; Llarimar said. &#8220;But--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I like it,&#8221;
Lightsong said, cutting of the priest. &#8220;I like it a
lot.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar fell silent.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong stared into the
painting with its flowing reds, painted so subtly that they gave a
<i>feeling</i> of war, rather than just an image. &#8220;It might
be the best painting that has ever passed through my
hall.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priests on the other side
of the room began writing furiously. Llarimar just stared at him,
troubled.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221; Lightsong
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s
nothing,&#8221; Llarimar said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Scoot. . . .&#8221;
Llarimar said, eying him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priest sighed. &#8220;I
can&#8217;t speak, your grace. I cannot taint your impression of
the paintings.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;A lot of gods have been
giving favorable reviews of war paintings lately, eh?&#8221;
Lightsong said, looking back at the piece of art.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar didn&#8217;t
answer.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s probably
nothing,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;Just us responding to those
arguments in the court, I&#8217;d guess.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Likely,&#8221; Llarimar
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong fell silent.&#160; It
wasn&#8217;t &#8216;nothing&#8217; to Llarimar. To him, Lightsong
wasn&#8217;t just giving his impression of art--he was foretelling
the future. What did it foretell to like a depiction of war with
such vibrant, brutal colorings?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I shouldn&#8217;t have
spoken,</i> he thought. And yet, reading the art seemed like the
only important thing he did.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He stared at the sharp smears
of paint, each person a just a couple triangular strokes. It was
beautiful. Could war be beautiful? How could he find beauty in
those grey faces meeting flesh, the Lifeless killing men? This
battle hadn&#8217;t even meant anything. It hadn&#8217;t decided
the fate of the war, even if the leader of the Pahn Unity--the
kingdoms united against Hallandren--had been killed in the battle.
Diplomacy had finally ended the Manywar, not bloodshed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>And I&#8217;m thinking of
starting this up again,</i> Lightsong thought, still transfixed by
the beauty.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>No,</i> he thought.&#160;
<i>No, I&#8217;m just being careful. Helping Blushweaver secure a
political faction. Better that, than let things just pass me by.
The Manywar started because the Royal family wasn&#8217;t
careful.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The painting continued to call
to him. &#8220;What&#8217;s that sword?&#8221; Lightsong asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Sword?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The black one,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;In the woman&#8217;s hand.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I. . .I don&#8217;t see
a sword, your grace,&#8221; Llarimar said. &#8220;To tell you the
truth, I don&#8217;t see a woman, either. It&#8217;s all just wild
strokes of paint, to me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You called it the Battle
of Twilight Falls.&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The title of the piece,
your grace,&#8221; Llarimar said. &#8220;I assumed that you were as
confused by it as I was, so I told you what the artist had named
it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The two fell silent.&#160;
Finally, Lightsong turned, walking away from the painting.
&#8220;I&#8217;m done reviewing art for the day.&#8221; He
hesitated. &#8220;Don&#8217;t burn that painting. Keep it for my
collection.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar offered no objection.
As Lightsong made his way out of the palace, he tried to regain
some of his excitement, and he was mostly successful--though memory
of the terrible, beautiful scene stayed with him. Mixing with his
memories of the last night&#8217;s dream, the clashing tempest of
winds.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Not even that could dampen his
mood completely. The truth was--odd dream notwithstanding--he had
awoken more eager this day than he had in years. Something was
different.&#160; Something excited him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;There had been a murder in the
Court of Gods.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He didn&#8217;t know why he
should find that so intriguing. If anything, he should find it
tragic. And yet, for so many years--as long as he had
lived--everything had been provided for him. Answers to his
questions, entertainment to sate his whims. He had become a glutton
almost by accident. Only two things had been withheld him:
Knowledge of his past and the ability to leave the Court.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Neither of those restrictions
were going to change soon. But here, inside the court--the place of
too much safety and comfort--something had gone wrong. A little
thing. A thing most people would probably ignore. Nobody cared.
Nobody wanted to care. Who, therefore, would mind Lightsong&#8217;s
questions?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;re acting very
oddly, your grace,&#8221; Llarimar said, catching up to him as they
crossed the grass, servants following behind in a chaotic cluster
as they worked to get a parasol open.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I know,&#8221; Lightsong
said. &#8220;However, can we not agree that I have <i>always</i>
been rather odd, for a God?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I guess that is
true.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then I&#8217;m actually
very like myself,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;And all is right in
the universe.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Are we really going back
to Mercystar&#8217;s palace?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Indeed we are. Do you
suppose she&#8217;ll be annoyed at us? That might prove
interesting.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar just sighed.&#160;
&#8220;Are you ready to talk about your dreams yet?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong fell silent as he
walked. The servants finally got the parasol up and held it above
him. &#8220;I dreamed of a storm,&#8221; Lightsong finally said.
&#8220;I was standing in it, without anything to brace myself. It
was raining and blowing against me, trying to force me backward. In
fact, it was so strong that even the ground beneath me seemed to
undulate.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar looked disturbed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>More signs of war,</i>
Lightsong thought. <i>Or, at least, that&#8217;s how he&#8217;ll
see it.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Anything
else?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; Lightsong
said.&#160; &#8220;A red panther. It seemed to shine, reflective,
like it was made of glass or something like that. It was in the
storm.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar eyed him.&#160;
&#8220;Are you making things up, your grace?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What? No! That&#8217;s
what I really dreamed.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar sighed, but nodded to
a lesser priest, who rushed up to do the transcribing. It
wasn&#8217;t long before they reached Mercystar&#8217;s palace of
yellow and gold. Lightsong paused before the building, realizing
that he&#8217;d never paid a visit to another god&#8217;s palace
without first sending a messenger.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Do you want me to send
someone in to announce you, your grace?&#8221; Llarimar asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong stood for a moment.
&#8220;No,&#8221; he finally said, noticing a pair of guards
standing at one of the doorways. The two men looked far more
muscular than the average servant and they wore swords. Dueling
blades, Lightsong assumed--though he&#8217;d never actually seen
one.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He walked up to the men.
&#8220;Is your mistress here?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I am afraid not, your
grace,&#8221; one of them said. &#8220;She went to visit Allmother
for the afternoon.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Allmother,</i> Lightsong
thought. <i>Another with Lifeless Commands. Blushweaver&#8217;s
doing?</i>&#160; Perhaps he would drop by later--he missed chatting
with Allmother. She, unfortunately, hated him violently.
&#8220;Ah,&#8221; Lightsong said to the guard. &#160;&#8220;Well,
regardless, I need to inspect the corridor just inside here, where
the attack happened the other night.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The guards glanced at each
other. &#8220;I. . .don&#8217;t know if we can let you do that,
your grace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Scoot!&#8221; Lightsong
said.&#160; &#8220;Can they forbid me?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Only if they have direct
commands forbidding you, given to them by Mercystar.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong looked back at the
men. Reluctantly, they stepped aside. &#8220;It&#8217;s perfectly
all right,&#8221; he told them. &#8220;She asked me to take care of
things. Kind of. Coming, Scoot?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar followed him into the
corridors. Once again, Lightsong felt an odd satisfaction.
Instincts he didn&#8217;t know he had drove him to seek out the
place where the servant had died.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The wood had been replaced--his
eyes, Heightened to recognize colors--could easily tell the
difference between the new wood and the old, used wood. He walked a
little further. The patch where the wood had turned grey was gone
as well, replaced with new wood.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Interesting,</i> he thought.
<i>But not unexpected. I wonder. . .are there any other
patches?</i>&#160; He walked a little further and was rewarded by
another patch of new wood. It formed an exact square.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your grace?&#8221; a new
voice asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong looked up to see the
curt young priest he had spoken with the day before. Lightsong
smiled. &#8220;Ah, good. I was hoping that you would
arrive.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;This is most irregular,
your grace,&#8221; the man said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I know,&#8221; Lightsong
said. &#8220;Look, I need to speak with the guards who saw the
intruder the other night.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But why?&#8221; the
priest said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Because I&#8217;m
eccentric,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;Now send for them. I need
to speak to <i>all</i> of the servants or guards who saw the man
who committed the murder.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your grace,&#8221; the
priest said sufferingly. &#8220;The authorities have already taken
care of this.&#160; They have determined that the intruder was a
thief after Mercystar&#8217;s art, and they have committed
to--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Scoot,&#8221; Lightsong
said, turning. &#8220;Can this man ignore my demand?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Only at great peril to
his soul, your grace,&#8221; Llarimar said. &#8220;You are, after
all, one of his gods.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priest eyed them both
angrily, then turned and sent a servant to do as Lightsong
asked.&#160; Lightsong knelt down, causing several servants to
whisper in alarm. They obviously thought it improper for a god to
stoop.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong ignored them, looking
at the square of new wood. It wasn&#8217;t like the other two that
had been replaced. Those boards had all been ripped up, creating an
uneven patch on the. Here, the distinction was very specific--a
square patch of wood that was just <i>slightly</i> a different
color from the others. Without Breath--and a lot of it--he
wouldn&#8217;t have even noticed the distinction.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>A trap door,</i> he thought
with sudden shock. The priest was watching him closely. <i>This
patch isn&#8217;t as new as the other ones back there. It&#8217;s
only new in relation to the other boards.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong crawled along the
floor, intentionally ignoring to the door in the wood. Once again,
unexpected instincts warned him not to reveal what he&#8217;d
discovered. So, instead, he looked as if he were searching for
threads that might have been caught on the wood. He picked up one
that had obviously come from a servant&#8217;s robe and held it
up.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priest seemed to relax
slightly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>So he knows about the trap
door,</i> Lightsong thought. <i>And. . .perhaps the intruder did as
well?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong crawled about on the
ground some more, causing great discomfort in the servants until
the men he had requested were assembled. He stood--letting a couple
of his servants dust off his robes--then walked over to the
newcomers. The hallway was growing quite crowded, so he shooed them
back out into the sunlight.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Outside, he regarded the group
of six men. &#8220;Identify yourselves. You on the left, who are
you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My name is
Gagaril,&#8221; the man said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m sorry,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;And how are you involved?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I was one of the guards
at the door when the intruder broke in.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Were you alone?&#8221;
Lightsong asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; said another
of the men. &#8220;I was with him.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Good,&#8221; Lightsong
said. &#8220;You two, go over there somewhere.&#8221; He waved his
hand at the lawn. The men looked at each other, then walked away as
indicated.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Far enough that you
can&#8217;t hear us!&#8221; Lightsong called at them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The men nodded and
continued.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;All right,&#8221;
Lightsong said, looking back at the others. &#8220;Who are you
four?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We were attacked by the
man in the hallway,&#8221; one of the servants said. He pointed at
two of the others. &#8220;All three of us. And. . .one other. The
man who was killed.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Terribly unfortunate,
that,&#8221; Lightsong said, pointing at another section of the
lawn. &#8220;Off you go.&#160; Walk until you can&#8217;t hear me
any more, then wait.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The three men trudged off.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And now you,&#8221;
Lightsong said, hands on hips, regarding the last man--a shorter
priest.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I saw the intruder flee,
your grace,&#8221; the priest said. &#8220;I was watching out a
window.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Very timely of
you,&#8221; Lightsong said, pointing at a third spot on the lawn,
far enough from the others to be sequestered. The man walked away.
Lightsong turned back to the priest who was obviously in
charge.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You said that the
intruder released a Lifeless animal?&#8221; Lightsong asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;A squirrel, your
grace,&#8221; the priest said. &#8220;We captured it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Go and fetch it for
me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your grace, it&#8217;s
quite wild and--&#8221; He stopped, recognizing the look in
Lightsong&#8217;s eyes, then waved for a servant.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; Lightsong
said.&#160; &#8220;Not a servant. You go and get it
personally.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priest looked
incredulous.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, yes,&#8221;
Lightsong said, waving him away. &#8220;I know. It&#8217;s an
offense to your dignity. Perhaps you should think about converting
to Austrism. For now, get going.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priest left, grumbling.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The rest of you,&#8221;
Lightsong said, addressing his own servants and priests. &#8220;You
wait here.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They looked resigned.&#160;
Apparently they were growing accustomed to him dismissing them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Come on, Scoot,&#8221;
Lightsong said, walking toward the first group he had sent off onto
the lawn--the two guards. Llarimar scuttled forward to keep up as
Lightsong took long strides over to the two men. &#8220;Now,&#8221;
Lightsong said to the two, out of earshot of the others,
&#8220;tell me what you saw.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He came to us pretending
to be a madman, your grace,&#8221; one of the guards said.
&#8220;He sauntered out of the shadows, mumbling to himself. It was
just an act, though, and when he got close enough, he knocked us
both out.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;How?&#8221; Lightsong
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He grabbed me around the
neck with tassels from his Awakened coat,&#8221; one of the men
said. He nodded to his companion. &#8220;Knocked him in the stomach
with the hilt of a sword.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The second guard raised his
shirt to show a large bruise on his stomach, then cocked his head
to the side, showing another one on his neck.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Choked us both,&#8221;
the first guard said. &#8220;Me with those tassels, Fran with a
boot on his neck.&#160; That&#8217;s the last thing we knew. By the
time we awoke, he was gone.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He choked you,&#8221;
Lightsong said, &#8220;but didn&#8217;t kill you. Just enough to
knock you out?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s right, your
grace,&#8221; the guard said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Please describe this
man,&#8221; Lightsong said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He was big,&#8221; the
guard said. &#8220;Had a scraggly beard. Not too long, but not
trimmed either.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He wasn&#8217;t smelly
or dirty,&#8221; the other said. &#8220;He just didn&#8217;t seem
to take much care for how he looked. His hair was long--came down
to his neck--and hadn&#8217;t seen a brush in a long
while.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Wore ragged
clothing,&#8221; the first said. &#8220;Patched in places, nothing
bright, but not really dark either. Just kind of. .
.bland.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And he was armed?&#8221;
Lightsong said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;With the sword that hit
me,&#8221; the second guard said. &#8220;Big thing. Not a dueling
blade, more like an easterner sword. Straight, but really long. Had
it hidden under his cloak, and we would have seen it, if he
hadn&#8217;t covered it up by walking so oddly.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong nodded.&#160;
&#8220;Thank you. Stay here.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;With that, he turned and walked
toward the second group.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;This is very
interesting, your grace,&#8221; Llarimar said. &#8220;But I really
don&#8217;t see the point.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m just
curious,&#8221; Lightsong said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Excuse me, your
grace,&#8221; Llarimar said. &#8220;But you&#8217;re not really the
curious type.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong continued walking.
The things he was doing, he did mostly without thinking. They just
felt natural. He approached the next group. &#8220;You were the
ones who saw the intruder in the hallway, right?&#8221; Lightsong
said to them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The men nodded. One shot a
glance back at Mercystar&#8217;s palace. The lawn in front of it
was now crowded with a colorful assortment of priests and servants,
both Mercystar&#8217;s and Lightsong&#8217;s own.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Tell me what
happened,&#8221; Lightsong said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We were walking through
the servant&#8217;s hallway,&#8221; one said. &#8220;We&#8217;d
been released for the evening, and were going to go out into the
city to a local tavern.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then we saw someone in
the hallway,&#8221; another said. &#8220;He didn&#8217;t belong
there.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Describe him,&#8221;
Lightsong said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Big man,&#8221; one
said.&#160; The others nodded. &#8220;Had ragged clothing and a
beard. Kind of dirty looking.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; another
said.&#160; &#8220;The clothing was old, but the man wasn&#8217;t
dirty. Just slovenly.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong nodded.&#160;
&#8220;Continue.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, there isn&#8217;t
much to say,&#8221; one of the men said. &#8220;He attacked us.
Threw an Awakened rope at poor Taff, who got tied up immediately.
Rariv and I ran for help. Beblin stayed behind.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong looked at the third
man. &#8220;You stayed back? Why?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;To help Taff, of
course,&#8221; the man said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Lying,</i> Lightsong
thought. <i>Looks too nervous.</i> &#8220;Really?&#8221; he said,
stepping closer.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man looked down.&#160;
&#8220;Well, mostly. I mean, there was the sword, too. . .
.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, right,&#8221;
another said. &#8220;He threw a sword at us. Strangest
thing.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He didn&#8217;t draw
it?&#8221; Lightsong asked. &#8220;He <i>threw</i> it?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The men shook their heads.
&#8220;He threw it at us, sheath and all. Beblin picked it
up.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I thought I&#8217;d
fight him,&#8221; Beblin said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Interesting,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;So you two left?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yeah,&#8221; one of the
men said. &#8220;When we came back with the others--after getting
around that blasted squirrel--we found Dadlet on the ground,
unconscious, and poor Taff. . .well, he was still tied up, though
the rope wasn&#8217;t Awakened any more. He&#8217;d been stabbed
straight through.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You saw him die?&#8221;
Lightsong said of Dadlet, the one who had stayed back.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; the man said,
waving his arms in denial. He had--Lightsong noticed--a bandage on
one hand.&#160; &#8220;The intruder knocked me out with a fist to
the head.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But you had the
sword,&#8221; Lightsong said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It was too big to
use,&#8221; the man said, looking down.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So, he threw the sword
at you, then ran up and <i>punched</i> you?&#8221; Lightsong
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man nodded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And your hand?&#8221;
Lightsong asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man paused, unconsciously
retracting his hand. &#8220;It got twisted. Nothing
important.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And you need a bandage
for a twisted wrist?&#8221; Lightsong said, raising an eyebrow.
&#8220;Show me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man hesitated.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Show me, or lose your
soul, child,&#8221; Lightsong said in what he hoped was a decently
divine voice.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man slowly extended his
hand. Llarimar stepped forward and removed the bandage.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The hand was completely grey,
drained of color.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Impossible,</i> Lightsong
thought with shock. <i>Awakening. . .it doesn&#8217;t do that to
living flesh. It can&#8217;t draw color from someone alive, only
objects. Boards, clothing.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man withdrew his hand.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What is that?&#8221;
Lightsong asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t
know,&#8221; the man said. &#8220;I woke up, and it was like
that.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Is that so?&#8221;
Lightsong said flatly. &#8220;And I&#8217;m to believe that you had
nothing else to do with this?&#160; That you weren&#8217;t working
with the intruder?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man fell to his knees
suddenly, beginning to cry. &#8220;Please, my lord! Don&#8217;t
take my soul. I&#8217;m not the best of men. I go to the brothels.
I cheat when we gamble.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The other two looked startled
at this.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But I didn&#8217;t know
anything about this intruder,&#8221; Dadlet continued.
&#8220;Please, you have to believe me. I just wanted that sword.
That beautiful, black sword! I wanted to draw it, swing it, attack
the man with it. I reached for it and while I was distracted, he
attacked me. But I didn&#8217;t see him kill Taff! I promise, I
hadn&#8217;t ever seen this intruder before! You have to believe
me!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong paused. &#8220;I
do,&#8221; he finally said. &#8220;Let this be a warning or
something. Be better. Stop cheating.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, my lord.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong nodded to the men,
then he and Llarimar left them behind.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I actually kind of feel
like a god,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;Did you see me make that
man repent?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Amazing, your
grace,&#8221; Llarimar said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So what do you think
about their testimonies?&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;Something
strange <i>is</i> going on, isn&#8217;t it?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m still curious
why you think you should be the one to investigate it, your
grace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Who better?&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;It&#8217;s not like I have anything else to
do.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Besides be a
god.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Overrated,&#8221;
Lightsong said, walking up to the final man. &#8220;It has nice
perks, but the hours are awful.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar snorted quietly as
Lightsong turned to address the final witness, the short priest who
stood in his robes of yellow and gold. He was a fair bit younger
than the other priest.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Was he chosen to tell me
lies with the hopes that he&#8217;d seem innocent?</i> Lightsong
wondered idly.&#160; <i>Or am I just making assumptions?</i>
&#160;&#160;&#8220;What is your story?&#8221; Lightsong asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The young priest bowed.
&#8220;I was going about my duties, carrying several inscribed
prophesies from the Lady&#8217;s mouth to the records sanctuary. I
heard a distant ruckus in the building. I looked out the window,
toward the sound, but I saw nothing.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Where were you?&#8221;
Lightsong asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The young man pointed toward a
window. &#8220;There, your grace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong frowned. He&#8217;d
been on the opposite side of the palace from the hallway where the
killing had occurred. However, that <i>was</i> the side of the
building where the intruder had first entered. &#8220;You could see
the doorway where the intruder disabled the two guards?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, your grace,&#8221;
the man said. &#8220;Though, I didn&#8217;t see them at first. I
almost left the window behind to go search out the sounds. However,
at that point I <i>did</i> notice something odd in the lantern
light of the entryway. A figure was moving about. It was then that
I saw the guards on the ground. I thought they were bodies, and I
was frightened by the shadowy figure moving between them. I
screamed, and ran for help. By the time anyone paid attention to
me, the figure was gone.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You went down to look
for him?&#8221; Lightsong asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man nodded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And how long did it take
you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Several minutes, your
grace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong nodded slowly.
&#8220;Very well, then. Thank you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The young priest moved as if to
walk over to the main group.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, wait,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;Did you, by chance, get a good enough look
at the intruder?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Not really, your
grace,&#8221; the priest said. &#8220;He was in dark clothing, kind
of nondescript. It was too far away to see well.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong waved the man away.
He rubbed his chin thoughtfully for a moment, then eyed
Llarimar.&#160; &#8220;Well?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priest raised an eyebrow.
&#8220;Well what, your grace?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What do you
think?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar shook his head.
&#8220;I. . .honestly don&#8217;t know, your grace. This is
obviously important, however.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong paused. &#8220;It
is?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar nodded. &#8220;Yes,
your grace. Because of what that man said--the one who was wounded
in the hand.&#160; He mentioned a black sword. You predicted it,
remember? In the painting this morning?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That wasn&#8217;t a
prediction,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;That was really there, in
the painting.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s the way
foretelling works, your grace,&#8221; Llarimar said.
&#8220;Don&#8217;t you see? You look at a painting and an entire
image appears to your eyes. All I see is random strokes of a red
brush. The scene you describe--the things you see--are
prophetic.&#160; You are a god.&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But I saw exactly what
the painting was said to depict!&#8221; Lightsong said.
&#8220;Before you even told me what the title was!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar nodded knowingly, as
if that proved his point.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, never mind.&#160;
Priests. Insufferable fanatics, every one of you. Either way, you
agree with me that there is something strange here.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Definitely, your
grace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Good,&#8221; Lightsong
said. &#8220;Then you&#8217;ll kindly stop complaining when I
investigate it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Actually, your
grace,&#8221; Llarimar said, &#8220;it&#8217;s even <i>more</i>
imperative that you <i>not</i> get involved. You predicted this
would occur, but you are an oracle. If you get involved, you could
unbalance a great many things.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I always like being
unbalanced,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;Besides, this is
<i>far</i> too much fun.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;As usual, Llarimar didn&#8217;t
react to having his advice ignored. As they began to walk back
toward the main group, however, the priest did ask a question.
&#8220;Your grace. Just to sate my own curiosity, what do
<i>you</i> think about the murder?&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s
obvious,&#8221; Lightsong said idly. &#8220;There were two
intruders.&#160; The first is the large man with the sword--he
knocked out the guards, attacked those servants, released the
Lifeless, then disappeared. The second man--the one the young
priest saw--came in after the first intruder. This second man is
the murderer.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar frowned. &#8220;Why do
you suppose that?&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The first man took care
not to kill,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;He left the guards alive
at risk to himself, since they could have woken back up at any
moment to raise the alarm. He didn&#8217;t draw his sword against
the servants but simply tried to subdue them. There was no reason
for him to kill a tied up captive--particularly since he&#8217;d
already left witnesses. It wouldn&#8217;t make sense.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;If there were a second
man, however. . .well, that would make sense. The servant who was
killed, he was the one who was conscious when this second intruder
came through. That awake servant was the only one who <i>saw</i>
the second intruder.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So, you think someone
else followed the man with the sword, killed the only witness, and
then. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Both of them
vanished,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;I&#8217;m thinking a
trapdoor beneath the palace. Seems fairly obvious to me. One thing,
however, is <i>not</i> obvious.&#8221; He glanced at Llarimar,
slowing before they reached the main group of priests and
servants.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And. . .what is that,
your grace?&#8221; Llarimar asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;How in the name of the
Colors I figured all of this out?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m trying to
decide that myself, your grace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong shook his head.
&#8220;This comes from before, Scoot. Everything I&#8217;m doing,
it feels <i>natural</i>.&#160; Who was I before I died?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t know what
you mean, your grace,&#8221; Llarimar said, turning away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, come now, Scoot. The
answer seems obvious to even me, and we both know I&#8217;m an
idiot. I spend most of my Returned life lounging about, but then
the <i>moment</i> someone is killed, I leap up and can&#8217;t help
but start poking around. Doesn&#8217;t that sound a little
suspicious to you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar didn&#8217;t look at
him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Colors!&#8221; Lightsong
swore. &#8220;You mean to tell me I was someone <i>useful</i>? I
was just beginning to convince myself that I&#8217;d died in a
reasonable way--such as falling off a stump when I was
drunk.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I said nothing,&#8221;
Llarimar said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, these instincts
came from somewhere,&#8221; Lightsong said as they walked over to
the main group of watching priests and servants. The head priest
from before stood with a wooden box. Wild scratching came from
inside. &#8220;Thank you,&#8221; Lightsong snapped, grabbing the
box and passing by without even breaking stride. &#8220;I&#8217;m
telling you, Scoot, I am <i>not</i> pleased.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You seemed rather happy
this morning, your grace,&#8221; Llarimar noted as they walked away
from Mercystar&#8217;s palace. Her priest stood behind, a complaint
dying on his lips, Lightsong&#8217;s entourage joining their
god.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I was happy,&#8221;
Lightsong said, &#8220;because I didn&#8217;t know what was going
on. How am I going to be properly indolent if I keep itching to go
investigate things? Honestly, this murder is completely destroying
my hard-earned reputation.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m sorry, your
grace, that you have to be inconvenienced by a semblance of
motivation.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You should be,&#8221;
Lightsong said, sighing. He handed over the box with its furious
Lifeless rodent. &#8220;Here. You think my Awakeners can break its
security phrase?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Eventually,&#8221;
Llarimar said. &#8220;Though it&#8217;s an animal, your grace. It
won&#8217;t be able to tell us information.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Have them do it
anyway,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;I need to think about this
case some more.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They walked back to his palace.
However, the thing that struck Lightsong the most was the fact that
he&#8217;d used the word &#8216;case&#8217; in reference to the
murder. It was a word he&#8217;d never heard used in that
particular context. Yet he knew that it fit.&#160; Instinctively,
automatically.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I didn&#8217;t have to learn
to speak again when I Returned,</i> he thought. <i>I didn&#8217;t
have to learn to walk again, or read again, or anything like that.
Only my memory was lost.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>But not all of it,
apparently.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And that left him wondering
what else he could do, if he tried.</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Twenty-Seven</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Something happened to those
previous God Kings,</i> Siri thought, walking through the
near-endless rooms of the God King&#8217;s palace, her servants
scuttling behind. <i>Something that Bluefingers fears will happen
to Susebron. It will be dangerous to both the God King and myself.
Or so Bluefingers claims.</i> &#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She continued to walk, trailing
a train made from hundred tassels of translucent green silk behind
her. The day&#8217;s gown was nearly gossamer--she&#8217;d chosen
it, then had asked her servants to fetch an opaque slip for her. It
was funny how quickly she&#8217;d stopped worrying about what was
&#8216;ostentatious&#8217; and what was not. &#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;There were simply much more
important problems that she needed to worry about.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>The priests</i> do<i>fear
that something will happen to Susebron,</i> she thought firmly.
<i>They are so eager for me to produce an heir. They claim
it&#8217;s about the succession, but they went fifty years without
bothering. They were willing to wait twenty years to get their
bride from Idris. Whatever the danger is, it&#8217;s not
urgent.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>And yet the priests act like
it is.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Perhaps they&#8217;d wanted a
bride of the Royal line so badly that they&#8217;d been willing to
risk the danger.&#160; Surely they needn&#8217;t have waited twenty
years, though. Vivenna could have born children years ago.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Though. . .perhaps the treaty
specified a time and not an age. Maybe it just said that the king
of Idris had twenty years to provide a bride for the God King.
&#160;That would explain why her father had been able to send Siri
instead. Gritting her teeth, Siri cursed herself for ignoring her
lessons about the treaty. She didn&#8217;t really know <i>what</i>
it said. For all she knew, the danger could be spelled out in the
document itself.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She needed more information.
Unfortunately, the priests were indifferent, the servants silent,
and Bluefingers, well. . . .</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She finally caught sight of him
walking through one of the rooms, writing on his ledger. Siri
hurried up, train rustling. He turned, glimpsing her. His eyes
opened wide, and he scuttled away with increased speed, ducking
through the open doorway into another room. Siri called after him,
moving as quickly as the dress would allow. When she arrived, the
room was empty.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Colors!&#8221; she
swore, feeling her hair grow a deep red in annoyance. &#8220;You
still think he isn&#8217;t avoiding me?&#8221; she demanded,
turning to the leader of her servants.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The woman lowered her gazed.
&#8220;It would be improper for a servant of the palace to avoid
his queen, Vessel. He must not have seen you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Right,</i> Siri thought,
<i>just like every other time.</i> When she sent for him, he always
arrived after she&#8217;d left. When she had a letter scribed to
him, and he responded with such vague language as to frustrate her
even further.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She couldn&#8217;t take books
from the palace library, and the priests were disruptively
distracting if she tried to read inside the library chamber itself.
She&#8217;d requested books from the city, but the priests had
insisted that they be brought by a priest, then read to her, as to
not &#8220;strain her eyes.&#8221; She was pretty sure that if
there was anything in the book that the priests didn&#8217;t want
her to know, the reader would simply skip it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She depended so much upon the
priests and scribes for everything, including information.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Except. . . .</i> she
thought, still standing in the bright red room. There <i>was</i>
another source of information. She turned to her servant leader.
&#8220;What activities are going on today in the
courtyard?&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Many, Vessel,&#8221; the
woman said. &#8220;Some artists have come and are doing paintings
and sketches. There are some animal handlers showing exotic pets,
several dye merchants displaying their newest color combinations,
and--of course--there are minstrels.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What about at that
building we went to before?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The arena, Vessel? I
believe there will be games there later in the evening. Contests of
physical prowess.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri nodded. &#8220;Prepare a
box. I want to attend.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Back in her homeland, Siri had
occasionally watched running contests. They were usually
spontaneous, as the monks did not approve of men showing off.
Austre gave all men talents.&#160; Flaunting them was seen as
arrogance.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Still, boys cannot be so easily
contained. She had seen them run, had even encouraged them. Those
contests, however, had been <i>nothing</i> like what the Hallandren
men now displayed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;There were a half dozen
different events going on at once. Some men threw large stones,
competing for distance. Others raced in a wide circle around the
interior of the arena floor, kicking up sand, sweating heavily in
the muggy Hallandren heat. Others tossed javelins, shot arrows, or
engaged in jumping contests.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri watched with a deepening
blush--one that ran all the way to the ends of her hair. The men
wore only loincloths. During her weeks in the grand city, she had
never seen anything quite so. . .interesting.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>A lady shouldn&#8217;t stare
at young men,</i> her mother had taught. <i>It&#8217;s
unseemly.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Yet what was the point, if not
to stare? Siri couldn&#8217;t help herself, and it wasn&#8217;t
just because of the naked skin. These were men who had trained
extensively to compete--who had mastered their physical abilities
to wondrous results. As Siri watched, she saw that relatively
little regard was given to the winners of each particular
event.&#160; The contests weren&#8217;t about victory, but about
the skill required to compete.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;In that way, these contests
were almost in line with Idris sensibilities--yet, at the same
time, they were ironically opposite.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The beauty of the games kept
her distracted for much longer than she&#8217;d intended, her hair
permanently locked into a deep maroon blush, even after she got
used to the idea of men competing in such scant clothing.
Eventually, she forced herself to stand and turn away from the
performance. She had work to do.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her servants perked up.&#160;
They had brought all kinds of luxuries. Full couches and cushions,
fruits and wines, even a few men with fans to keep her cool. Even
after only a few weeks in the palace, such comfort was beginning to
seem commonplace to her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There was a god who came
and spoke to me before,&#8221; Siri said, scanning the
amphitheater, where many of the stone box sections were decorated
with colorful pavilions. &#8220;Which one was it?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Lightsong the Bold,
Vessel,&#8221; one of the serving women said. &#8220;God of
bravery.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri nodded. &#8220;And his
colors are?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Gold and red,
Vessel.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri smiled. His pavilion
showed that he was there. He wasn&#8217;t the only god to have
introduced himself to her during her weeks in the palace, but he
<i>was</i> the only one who had spent any amount of time chatting
with her. He&#8217;d been confusing, but at least he&#8217;d been
willing to talk. She left her box, beautiful dress trailing on the
stone.&#160; She&#8217;d had to force herself to stop feeling
guilty for ruining them, since apparently each dress was burned the
day after she wore it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her servants burst into anxious
motion, gathering up furniture and foods, following behind Siri. As
before, there were people on the benches below--merchants rich
enough to buy entrance to the Court or peasants who had won a
certain lottery drawing. Many turned and looked up as she passed,
whispering among themselves.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>It&#8217;s the only way they
get to see me,</i> she realized. <i>Their queen.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That was one thing that Idris
certainly did better than Hallandren. The Idrians had easy access
to their king and their government, while in Hallandren the leaders
were held aloof--and therefore made remote, even mysterious.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She approached the red and gold
pavilion. The god she had seen before lounged inside, relaxing on a
couch, sipping a large glass cup filled with an icy red liquid. He
looked much as he had before--chiseled masculine features that she
was coming to associate with godhood, styled black hair, golden tan
skin, and a rather indifferent attitude.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>That&#8217;s something else
Idris was right about,</i> she thought. <i>My people may be too
stern, but it also isn&#8217;t good to become as indulgent as some
of these Returned.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The god, Lightsong, eyed her.
&#8220;My queen.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Lightsong the
Bold,&#8221; she said as one of her servants brought her chair.
&#8220;I trust your day has been pleasant?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So far this day I have
discovered several disturbing and redefining elements of my soul
which are slowly restructuring the very nature of my
existence.&#8221; &#160;He took a sip from his drink. &#8220;Other
than that, it was uneventful. You?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Fewer
revelations,&#8221; Siri said, sitting. &#8220;More confusion.
I&#8217;m still inexperienced in the way things work here. I was
kind of hoping you could answer some of my questions, give me some
information, perhaps. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Afraid not,&#8221;
Lightsong said happily.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri paused, then flushed,
embarrassed. &#8220;I&#8217;m sorry. Did I do something wrong.
I--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No, nothing wrong,
child,&#8221; Lightsong said, his smile deepening. &#8220;The
reason I cannot help you is because I, unfortunately, know nothing.
I&#8217;m useless. Haven&#8217;t you heard?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Um. . .I&#8217;m afraid
I haven&#8217;t.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You should pay better
attention,&#8221; he said, raising his cup toward her. &#8220;Shame
on you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri frowned, growing more
embarrassed. Lightsong&#8217;s high priest--distinguished by his
oversized headgear--looked on disapprovingly, and that only caused
her to be more self-conscious. <i>Why should I be the
self-conscious one?</i> she thought, growing annoyed. <i>Lightsong
is the one who is making veiled insults against me--and making
overt ones against himself! It&#8217;s like he</i> enjoys <i>being
degraded.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Actually,&#8221; Siri
said, looking over at him, lifting her chin. &#8220;I <i>have</i>
heard of your reputation, Lightsong the Bold. Useless wasn&#8217;t
the word <i>I</i> heard, however.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh?&#8221; he said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes. I was told you were
harmless, though I can see that is not true--for in speaking to
you, my <i>ears</i> have certainly been harmed. Not to mention my
head, which is beginning to ache.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Both common symptoms of
dealing with me, I&#8217;m afraid,&#8221; he said with an
exaggerated sigh.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That could be
solved,&#8221; Siri said. &#8220;Perhaps it would help if you would
put a bag over your head and refrained from speaking when others
are present. I think I should find you quite amiable in those
circumstances.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong laughed. Not a
bellowing laugh, like her father or some of the men back in Idris,
but a more refined laugh. Still, it seemed genuine.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I <i>knew</i> I liked
you, girl,&#8221; he said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m not sure if I
should find that an insult or not.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Depends upon how
seriously one takes oneself,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;Come,
divest yourself of that silly chair and recline on one of these
couches. Enjoy the evening.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m not sure that
would be proper,&#8221; Siri said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m a god,&#8221;
Lightsong said with a wave of his hand. &#8220;I make
propriety.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I think I&#8217;ll sit
anyway,&#8221; Siri said, though she did stand and have her
servants bring the chair further under the pavilion so that she
didn&#8217;t have to speak so loudly. She was careful not to look
to long at the contests, lest she be drawn in by them again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong smiled. He seemed to
enjoy making others uncomfortable. But, then, he also seemed to
take little concern for how he was regarded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I was honest before,
Lightsong,&#8221; she said. &#8220;I need information.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And I, my dear, was
quite honest as well. I <i>am</i> useless. However, I&#8217;ll try
my best to answer your questions--assuming, of course, you will
provide answers to mine.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And. . .if I don&#8217;t
know the answers to your questions?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then make something
up,&#8221; he said. &#8220;I&#8217;ll never know the difference.
Unaware ignorance is far more comfortable than knowledgeable
stupidity.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;ll try to
remember that.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Do so and you defeat the
point. Now, your questions?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What happened to the
previous God Kings?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Died,&#8221; Lightsong
said. &#8220;Happens to people sometimes, even gods. We make, if
you haven&#8217;t noticed, laughable immortals. We keep forgetting
about that &#8216;live forever&#8217; part and instead find
ourselves unexpectedly dead. For the second time.&#160; Rather
unpleasant, so I hear.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Dead?&#8221; she said.
&#8220;How did the God Kings die?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Gave away their
Breath,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;Isn&#8217;t that right,
Scoot?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong&#8217;s high priest
nodded. &#8220;It is, your grace. His Divine Majesty Susebron the
Fourth died to cure the plague of distrentia that struck
T&#8217;Telir fifty years ago.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Wait,&#8221; Lightsong
said. &#8220;Isn&#8217;t distrentia a disease of the
bowels?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Indeed,&#8221; the high
priest said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong frowned.&#160;
&#8220;You mean to tell me that our God King--the most holy and
divine personage in our pantheon--died to cure a few tummy
aches?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I wouldn&#8217;t exactly
put it that way, your grace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong leaned over to Siri.
&#8220;I&#8217;m expected to do that someday, you know. Kill myself
so that some old lady will be able to stop messing herself in
public. Terribly undignified.&#160; No wonder I&#8217;m such an
embarrassing God. Must have to do with subconscious self-worth
issues.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The high priest shot an
apologetic look at Siri. For the first time, she realized that the
overweight priest&#8217;s disapproval wasn&#8217;t directed at her,
but his god. To her, he smiled.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Maybe they&#8217;re not all
like Tridees,</i> she thought, smiling back.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The God King&#8217;s
sacrifice was not a frivolous waste, Vessel,&#8221; the priest
said. &#8220;True, diarrhea may not seem a danger to many, but to
the elderly and the young it can be quite deadly. Plus, the
conditions were spreading other diseases, and the city&#8217;s
commerce--and therefore the kingdom&#8217;s commerce--had slowed to
a crawl. People in outlying villages went months without necessary
supplies.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, there you
go,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;Question answered. I&#8217;m
sorry.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Because I lied to
you,&#8221; Lightsong said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;About how the God King
died?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Colors, no. About being
useless. I promise I will be more diligent in the
future.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri paused, then found herself
smiling even more deeply.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221; Lightsong
asked, then finished off the last of his drink. It was immediately
replaced by another one, this time blue.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Talking to you is like
talking to a river,&#8221; she said. &#8220;I keep getting pulled
along with the current and I&#8217;m never sure when I&#8217;ll be
able to take another breath.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Watch out for the rocks,
Vessel,&#8221; the high priest noted. &#8220;They look rather
innocent, but there&#8217;s a lot of weight to them under the
surface.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Bah,&#8221; Lightsong
said.&#160; &#8220;It&#8217;s the <i>alligators</i> you have to
watch for. They can bite. And. . .what exactly are we talking
about, anyway?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The God Kings,&#8221;
Siri said. &#8220;When the last one died, an heir had already been
produced?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Indeed,&#8221; the high
priest said. &#8220;In fact, he had just been married the year
before. The child had been born only weeks before he
died.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri sat back in her chair,
thoughtful. &#8220;And the God King before him?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Died to heal the
children of a village, attacked by bandits,&#8221; Lightsong said.
&#8220;The commoners love that story. The king was so moved by
their suffering that he gave himself up for the simple
people.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And had he been married
the year before?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No, Vessel,&#8221; the
high priest said. &#8220;It was several years afterward. Though, he
<i>did</i> die only a month after his second child was
born.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri looked up. &#8220;Was the
first child a daughter?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; the priest
said.&#160; &#8220;A woman of no divine or Returned powers. How did
you know?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Colors!</i> Siri thought.
<i>Both times, right after the heir was born.</i> Did having a
child somehow make the God Kings wish to give their lives away? Or
was it something more sinister? A cured plague or healed village
were both things that, with a little creative propaganda, could be
invented.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m not much of an
expert on these things, I&#8217;m afraid, Vessel,&#8221; the high
priest continued. &#8220;And, I&#8217;m afraid that Lord Lightsong
is not either. If you press him, he very well <i>could</i> just
begin making things up.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Scoot!&#8221; Lightsong
said indignantly. &#8220;That&#8217;s slanderous. Oh, and by the
way, your zebra is on fire.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Thank you,&#8221; Siri
said. &#8220;Both of you. It has actually been rather
helpful.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;If I might suggest. . .
.&#8221; the high priest said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course,&#8221; she
replied.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Try a professional
storyteller, Vessel,&#8221; the priest said. &#8220;You can order
one in from the city, and they can recite both histories and tales
of imagination to you. They will provide much better information
than we can.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri nodded. <i>Why can&#8217;t
the priests in the palace be this helpful?</i> Of course, if they
really <i>were</i> covering up the reason why their God Kings died,
then they had good reason to avoid helping her. In fact, there was
a good chance that if she asked for a storyteller, they would just
send for one who would tell her what they wanted her to hear.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She frowned. &#8220;Could. .
.you do it for me, Lightsong?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Order in a
storyteller,&#8221; she said. &#8220;I should like you to be there,
in case I have any questions.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong shrugged. &#8220;I
guess I could. Haven&#8217;t heard a storyteller in some time. Just
let me know when.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It wasn&#8217;t a perfect
plan.&#160; Her servants were listening and they might be spies for
the priests. However, if the storyteller came to Lightsong&#8217;s
palace, perhaps there was a better chance of Siri hearing the
truth.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Thank you,&#8221; she
said, rising.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ah, ah, ah?&#8221;
Lightsong said, raising a finger.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She stopped.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He drank from his
cup.&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well?&#8221; she finally
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He held up the finger again as
he continued to drink, tipping his head back, getting the last bits
of slushy ice from the bottom of the cup. He set it aside, mouth
blue. &#8220;How refreshing.&#160; Idris. Wonderful place. Lots of
ice. Costs quite a bit, so I&#8217;ve heard. Good thing I
don&#8217;t ever have to pay for anything, eh?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri raised an eyebrow.
&#8220;And I&#8217;m standing here waiting because. . .
.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You promised to answer
some of my questions.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh,&#8221; she said,
sitting back down. &#8220;Of course.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Now, then,&#8221; he
said.&#160; &#8220;Did you know any policemen back in your home
village?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She cocked her head.&#160;
&#8220;Policemen?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You know, fellows who
keep the law. City watch. Law enforcement officers. Sheriffs. The
men who catch crooks and guard dungeons. That sort.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I. . .I knew a couple, I
guess,&#8221; she said. &#8220;My home city wasn&#8217;t large but
it was the capital. It did attract some difficult
people.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ah, good,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;Kindly describe them for me. Not the
difficult fellows. The city watch.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri shrugged. &#8220;I
don&#8217;t know. They tended to be careful. They&#8217;d interview
newcomers to the village, walk the streets looking for wrongdoing,
that sort of thing.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Would you call them
inquisitive types?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; Siri said.
&#8220;I guess. I mean, as much as anybody. Maybe more.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Were there ever any
murders in your village?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;A couple,&#8221; Siri
said, glancing down. &#8220;There shouldn&#8217;t have been--my
father always said things like that shouldn&#8217;t happen in
Idris. Said murder was a thing of. . .well, Hallandren.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong chuckled.&#160;
&#8220;Yes, we do it all the time. Quite the party trick. Now, did
these policemen investigate the murders?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Without having to be
asked to do so?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri nodded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;How&#8217;d they go
about it?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t
know,&#8221; Siri said. &#8220;They asked questions, talked to
witnesses, looked for clues. I wasn&#8217;t involved.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No, no,&#8221; Lightsong
said. &#8220;Of course you weren&#8217;t. If you&#8217;d been a
murderer, they would have done something terrible to you. Like. .
.I don&#8217;t know, exile you to another country?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri felt herself pale, hair
growing lighter.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong just laughed.
&#8220;Don&#8217;t go taking me seriously, child. Honestly, I gave
up wondering if you were an assassin <i>weeks</i> ago. Now, if your
servants and mine will stay behind for a second, I think I have
something important to tell you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri started as Lightsong stood
up. He began to walk from the pavilion, and his servants remained
back. Confused but excited, Siri rose from her own seat and hurried
after him, waving her servants back. She caught up with him a short
distance away on the stone walkway that ran between the various
boxes in the arena.&#160; Down below, the athletes continued their
display.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong looked down at her,
smiling.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>They really are tall,</i>
she thought, craning a bit. A single foot of extra height made such
a difference; when standing next to a man like Lightsong--and not
really being that tall in the first place--she felt dwarfed.
<i>Maybe he&#8217;ll tell me the thing I&#8217;ve been looking
for,</i> Siri thought. <i>The secret!</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You are playing a
dangerous game, my queen,&#8221; Lightsong said, leaning against
the stone railing.&#160; It was built after Returned proportions,
so it was too high for her to rest against comfortably.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Game?&#8221; she
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Politics,&#8221; he
said, watching the athletes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t want to
play politics.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s what I
always say,&#8221; Lightsong said, sighing. &#8220;But I keep
getting sucked in. Every time.&#160; Complaining doesn&#8217;t stop
that--though it does annoy people, which is satisfying in its own
right.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri frowned. &#8220;So you
pulled me aside to give me a warning?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Colors, no,&#8221;
Lightsong said, chuckling. &#8220;If you haven&#8217;t figured out
that this is dangerous, then you&#8217;re far to dense to worry
about warning.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh. Well, that&#8217;s
pleasant.&#160; Do you have more insults for me, or should I slap
you now?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He smiled. &#8220;I just wanted
to give some advice. The first is about your persona.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My persona?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; he said.
&#8220;It needs work. Using the persona of an innocent newcomer was
a good instinct.&#160; You fit it well. But you need to refine it.
Work on it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s not a
persona,&#8221; she said honestly. &#8220;I <i>am</i> confused and
new to all this.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong raised a finger.
&#8220;That&#8217;s the trick to politics, child. Sometimes, you
can&#8217;t disguise who you are and how you feel, but you can
<i>still</i> control how people react to you. Take who you are and
adapt it. You want to know how people regard you, because that way
you know how they&#8217;ll react to you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri frowned.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Take me as an
example,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;I&#8217;m a useless fool.
Always have been, as long as I can remember--which, actually,
isn&#8217;t all that long. I call you child, but I&#8217;ve only
been alive five years, though I feel as if I&#8217;ve lived forty.
Either way, I know how people regard me. I enhance it. Play with
it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So it&#8217;s a
lie?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course not. This is
who I am. However, I make certain that people <i>know</i> it.
Controlling how you look--how people think of you--is paramount, my
queen Let them see you, let them become comfortable with you.
People distrust that which they can&#8217;t predict. As long as you
feel like a random element in court, you will appear to be a
threat. If you can skillfully--and honestly--portray yourself as
someone they understand, then you&#8217;ll begin to fit in.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You can&#8217;t control
everything.&#160; But you can find a place in this mess. And once
you have it, you can begin to push on temperaments and influence
factions. Should you want to. I rarely do because it&#8217;s such a
hassle.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri cocked her head.&#160;
Then she smiled. &#8220;You&#8217;re a good man, Lightsong,&#8221;
she said. &#8220;I knew it, even when you were insulting me. You
mean no harm. Is that part of your persona?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Trust me,&#8221; he
said, smiling. &#8220;I&#8217;m not sure <i>what</i> it is that
convinces people to trust me.&#160; I&#8217;d get rid of it if I
could. It only serves to make people expect too much.&#160; Give
what I said some practice. The best thing about being locked in
this beautiful prison is that you <i>can</i> do some good, you
<i>can</i> change things. I&#8217;ve seen others do it. People I
respected. Haven&#8217;t been many of those around in the Court
lately.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;All right,&#8221; she
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;re digging for
something--I can sense it. And it has to do with the priests.
Don&#8217;t make too many waves until you&#8217;re ready to strike.
Sudden and surprising, that&#8217;s how you want to be. You
don&#8217;t want to appear <i>too</i> nonthreatening--people are
always suspicious of the innocent. The trick is to appear
<i>average</i>.&#160; Just as crafty as everyone else. That way,
everyone else will assume that they can beat you with just a little
advantage.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri nodded. &#8220;Kind of an
Idris philosophy.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You came from us,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;Or, perhaps, we came from you. Either way,
we&#8217;re more similar than a lot of our outward trappings make
us seem. What is that Idris philosophy of extreme plainness except
a means of contrasting against Hallandren? All those whites you
people use? That makes you stand out on a national scale. You act
like us, we act like you, we just do things in opposite
ways.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She nodded slowly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He smiled. &#8220;Oh, and one
thing. Please, <i>please</i> don&#8217;t depend on me too much. I
mean what I say. I&#8217;m not going to be of much help. If your
plots come to a head--if things go wrong at the last moment and
you&#8217;re in danger or distress--don&#8217;t think of me. I will
fail you. <i>That</i> I promise with the absolute sincerity of my
heart.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;re a very
strange man.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Product of my
society,&#8221; he said. &#8220;And, since my society consists
pretty much only of myself, I blame god. Good day, my
queen.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;With that, he trailed away,
walking back to his pavilion and waving for her servants--who had
been watching with concern--to finally rejoin her.</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Twenty-Eight</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The meeting is set, my
lady,&#8221; Thame said. &#8220;The men are eager. Your work in
T&#8217;Telir is gaining more and more notoriety.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna wasn&#8217;t sure what
she thought of that. She sipped her juice. The lukewarm liquid was
addictively flavorful.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Thame looked at her eagerly.
The short Idris man was, by Denth&#8217;s investigations,
trustworthy enough. His story of being &#8216;forced&#8217; into a
life of crime was a bit exaggerated.&#160; He filled a niche in
Hallandren society--he acted as a liaison between the Idris workers
and the various criminal elements.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He was also, apparently, a
staunch patriot. Despite the fact that he tended to exploit his own
people, particularly newcomers to the city.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;How many will be at the
meeting?&#8221; Vivenna asked, watching traffic pass on the street
out beyond the restaurant patio gate.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Over a hundred, my
lady,&#8221; Thame said. &#8220;Loyal to our king, I promise. And,
they&#8217;re influential men, all of them--for Idrians, that
is.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Which, according to Denth,
meant that they were men who wielded power in the city because they
could provide cheap Idrian workers, and could sway the opinion of
the underprivileged Idrian masses. They were men who, like Thame,
thrived because of the Idrian subclass. A strange duality. These
men gained notoriety among an oppressed minority, but without the
oppression, they would be powerless.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Like Lemks,</i> she thought,
<i>who served my father--even seemed to respect and love him--all
the while stealing every bit of gold he could get his fingers
on.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She leaned back, wearing a
white dress with a long skirt that rippled and blew in the wind.
&#160;She tapped the side of her cup, which caused a serving man to
refilled her juice.&#160; Thame smiled, taking more juice as well,
though he looked out of place in the fine restaurant.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;How many are there, you
suppose?&#8221; she asked. &#8220;Idrians in the city, I
mean.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Thousands, my
lady.&#160; Perhaps as many as five or six.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That many?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Trouble on the lower
farms,&#8221; Thame said, shrugging. &#8220;It&#8217;s hard,
sometimes, living up in those mountains. Crops fail, and what do
you have? The king owns your land, so you can&#8217;t sell. You
need to pay your levies. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, but men can make
petitions in the case of disaster,&#8221; Vivenna said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ah, my lady, but most of
these men are several weeks travel from the king. Do you leave your
family and seek a petition, yet fear that they&#8217;ll starve
during the weeks it will take to bring food from the king&#8217;s
storehouse? Or do you travel the much shorter distance down to
T&#8217;Telir? Take work there, loading on the docks or harvesting
flowers in the jungle plantations. Hard work, but
steady.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>And, in doing so, they
betray their people.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But who was she to judge? The
Fifth Vision chastised her haughtiness. She sat beneath a shaded
canopy, enjoying a nice breeze and expensive juice while other men
slaved to provide for their families. She had no right to sneer at
their motivations.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Idrians shouldn&#8217;t have to
seek for work in Hallandren. She didn&#8217;t like to admit fault
in her father, yet his was not a bureaucratically strong kingdom.
It consisted of dozens of scattered villages with poor highways
that were often hampered by snows or rockslides. In addition, he
had to expend a lot of resources keeping his military strong in
case of a Hallandren assault.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He had a difficult job. Was
that a good enough excuse for the poverty she saw in her people who
had been forced to flee their homeland? The more she listened and
learned, the more she realized that many Idrians had never known
the idyllic life she&#8217;d lived in her mountain
valley.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Meeting is three days
hence, my lady,&#8221; Thame said. &#8220;Some of these men are
hesitant after Vahr and his failure, but they will listen to
you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I will be
there.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Thank you.&#8221; Thame
rose--bowed, despite the fact that she&#8217;d asked him not to
draw attention to her--and withdrew.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna sat and sipped her
juice. She felt Denth before he arrived. &#8220;You know what
interests me?&#8221; he said, taking the seat Thame had been
using.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;People,&#8221; he said,
tapping an empty cup, drawing the serving man back over.
&#8220;People interest me.&#160; Particularly people who
don&#8217;t act like they&#8217;re supposed to. People who surprise
you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I hope you aren&#8217;t
talking about Thame,&#8221; Vivenna asked, raising an eyebrow.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth shook his head.&#160;
&#8220;I&#8217;m talking about you, Princess. Wasn&#8217;t too long
ago that--no matter what or who you looked at--you had a look of
quiet displeasure in your eyes. You&#8217;ve lost it. You&#8217;re
starting to fit in.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then that&#8217;s a
problem, Denth,&#8221; Vivenna said. &#8220;I don&#8217;t want to
fit in. I hate Hallandren.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You seem to like that
juice all right.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna set it aside.&#160;
&#8220;You&#8217;re right, of course. I shouldn&#8217;t be drinking
it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;If you say so,&#8221;
Denth said, shrugging. &#8220;Now, if you were to ask the
mercenary--which, of course, nobody ever does--he might mention
that it&#8217;s <i>good</i> for you to start acting like a
Hallandren. The less you stand out, then, the less likely people
are to connect you to that Idrian princess hiding in the city. Take
your friend Parlin.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He looks like a fool in
those bright colors,&#8221; she said, glancing across the street
toward where he and Jewels were chatting as they watched the escape
route.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Does he?&#8221; Denth
said.&#160; &#8220;Or does he just look like a Hallandren? Would
you hesitate at all if you were in the jungle and saw him put on
the fur of a beast, or perhaps shroud himself in a cloak colored
like fallen leaves?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She looked again.&#160; Parlin
had lost some of his woodsman&#8217;s grace in recent weeks, and he
lounged against the side of a building. . .much like she&#8217;d
seen street toughs his age do other places in the city.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You both fit better here
than you once did,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;You&#8217;re
learning.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna looked down.&#160; Some
things in her new life were actually starting to feel natural. The
raids, for instance, were becoming surprisingly easy. She was also
growing used to moving with the crowds and being part of an
underground element. Two months ago, she would have been
indignantly opposed to dealing with a man like Denth, simply
because of his profession.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She found it very difficult to
reconcile some of these changes in her. It was growing harder and
harder to understand herself, and to decide what she believed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Though,&#8221; Denth
said, eyeing Vivenna&#8217;s dress. &#8220;You might want to think
about switching to trousers.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna frowned, looking
up.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Just a
suggestion,&#8221; Denth said, then gulped down some juice.
&#8220;You don&#8217;t like the short Hallandren skirts, but the
only decent clothing we can buy you that are &#8216;modest&#8217;
are of foreign make--and that makes them expensive. That means we
have to use expensive restaurants, lest we stand out. That means
you have to deal with all of this terrible lavishness. Trousers,
however, are modest <i>and</i> cheap.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Trousers are <i>not</i>
modest.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Don&#8217;t show
knees,&#8221; he said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Doesn&#8217;t
matter.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth shrugged. &#8220;Just
giving my opinion.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna looked away, then
sighed quietly. &#8220;I appreciate the advice, Denth. Really. I
just. . .I&#8217;m confused by a lot of my life lately.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;World&#8217;s a
confusing place,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;That&#8217;s what makes
it fun.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The men we&#8217;re
working with,&#8221; Vivenna said. &#8220;They lead the Idrians in
the city but exploit them at the same time. Lemks stole from my
father but still worked for the interests of my country. And, here
I am, wearing an overpriced dress and sipping expensive juice while
my sister is being abused by a terrible dictator and while this
wonderful, terrible city prepares to launch a war on my
homeland.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth leaned back in his chair,
looking out over the short railing toward the street, watching the
crowds with their colors both beautiful and terrible. &#8220;The
motivations of men.&#160; They never make sense. And they always
make sense.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Right now, <i>you</i>
don&#8217;t make sense.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth smiled. &#8220;What
I&#8217;m trying to say is that you don&#8217;t understand a man
until you understand his motivations. Every man is a hero in his
own story, Princess. Murderers don&#8217;t believe that
they&#8217;re to blame for what they do. Thieves, they think they
deserve the money they take. Dictators. . .they believe they have
the right--for the safety of their people--to do whatever they
wish.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He stared off, shaking his
head. &#8220;I think even Vasher sees himself as a hero. The truth
is, most people who do what you&#8217;d call &#8216;wrong&#8217; do
it for what they call &#8216;right&#8217; reasons. Only mercenaries
make any sense. We do what we&#8217;re paid to do.&#160;
That&#8217;s it. Perhaps that&#8217;s why people look down on us
so. We&#8217;re the only ones they understand.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He paused, the met her eyes.
&#8220;In a way, we&#8217;re the most honest men you&#8217;ll ever
meet.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The two of them fell silent,
the crowd passing by just a short distance away, a river of
flashing colors. Another figure approached the table.
&#8220;That&#8217;s right,&#8221; Tonk Fah said, &#8220;but, you
forgot to mention that in addition to being honest, we&#8217;re
also clever. And handsome.&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Those both go without
saying,&#8221; Denth said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna turned. Tonk Fah, like
the others, had been watching from a distance. They were letting
her start to take the lead in some of the meetings. &#8220;Honest,
perhaps,&#8221; Vivenna said. &#8220;But I certainly <i>hope</i>
that you&#8217;re not the most handsome men I&#8217;ll ever meet.
Are we ready to go?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Assuming you&#8217;re
finished with your juice,&#8221; Denth said, smirking at her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna glanced at her cup. It
was <i>very</i> good. Feeling guilty, she took one last gulp. Then
she rose and swished her way from the building, leaving Denth--who
now handled most of the coins--to settle the bill. Outside on the
street, they were joined by Clod, who&#8217;d been given orders to
come if she screamed for help.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She turned, looking back at
Tonk Fah and Denth. &#8220;Tonks,&#8221; she said.
&#8220;Where&#8217;s your monkey?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He sighed. &#8220;Monkeys are
boring anyway.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She rolled her eyes.&#160;
&#8220;You lost <i>another</i> one?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth chuckled. &#8220;Get used
to it, Princess. Of all the justices in the universe, one of the
greatest is that Tonks has never fathered a child. He&#8217;d
probably lose it before the week was out.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She just shook her head.
&#8220;Whatever,&#8221; she said. &#8220;Next appointment.
D&#8217;Denir garden, right?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth nodded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Let&#8217;s go,&#8221;
she said, walking down the street. The others trailed behind,
picking up Parlin and Jewels on the way. Vivenna didn&#8217;t wait
for Clod to force a way through the crowd. The less she depended on
that Lifeless to help her, the better. Moving through the crowds
really wasn&#8217;t that difficult. There was an art to it--one
moved with crowd, rather than trying to swim against its flow. It
wasn&#8217;t long before, Vivenna at the front, the group turned
off into the wide grass field that was the D&#8217;Denir garden.
Like the crossroads, this place was an open space of green life set
among the buildings and colors. Yet, here no flowers or trees broke
the landscape, nor did people busy about. This was a more reverent
place.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And it was filled with statues.
Hundreds of them. They looked much like the other D&#8217;Denir in
the city--with their oversized bodies and heroic poses, many tied
with colorful cloths or garments. These were some of the oldest
statures she had seen, their stone weathered from years spent
enduring the frequent T&#8217;Telir rainfalls. This group was the
final gift from Peacegiver the Blessed. The statues had been made
as a memorial to those who had died in the Manywar. A monument and
a warning.&#160; So the legends said. Vivenna figured that if the
people really did honor those that had fallen, they wouldn&#8217;t
dress the statues up in such ridiculous outfits.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Still, the place was far more
serene than most in T&#8217;Telir, and she could appreciate that.
She walked down the steps onto the lawn, trailing between the
silent stone figures.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth moved up beside her.
&#8220;Remember who we&#8217;re meeting?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She nodded.
&#8220;Forgers.&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth he eyed her. &#8220;You
all right with this?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Denth, during our months
together I&#8217;ve met with thief lords, murderers, and--most
frighteningly--mercenaries. I think I can deal with a couple of
spindly scribes.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth shook his head.&#160;
&#8220;These are the men who <i>sell</i> the documents, not the
scribes who do the work. You won&#8217;t meet more dangerous men
than forgers. Within the Hallandren bureaucracy, they can make
anything seem legal by sticking the right documents in the right
places.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna nodded slowly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You remember what to
have them make?&#8221; Denth asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course I do,&#8221;
she said. &#8220;This particular plan was <i>my</i> idea,
remember?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Just checking,&#8221; he
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;re worried
that I&#8217;ll mess things up, aren&#8217;t you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shrugged.
&#8220;You&#8217;re the leader in this little dance, Princess.
I&#8217;m just the guy who mops the floor afterward.&#8221; He eyed
her. &#8220;I hate mopping up blood.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, please,&#8221; she
said, rolling her eyes, walking faster and leaving him behind. As
he fell back, she could hear him talking to Tonk Fah. &#8220;Bad
metaphor?&#8221; Denth asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Nah,&#8221; Tonk Fah
said.&#160; &#8220;It had blood in it. That makes it a good
metaphor.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I think it lacked poetic
style.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Find something that
rhymes with &#8216;blood&#8217; then,&#8221; Tonk Fah suggested. He
paused. &#160;&#8220;Mud? Cud? Uh. . .tastebud?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>They sure are literate, for
a bunch of thugs,</i> she thought, shaking her head.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She didn&#8217;t have to go far
before she spotted the men. They waited beside the meeting place--a
large D&#8217;Denir with a weathered axe. The group of people were
having a picnic and chatting among themselves.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna slowed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s
them,&#8221; Denth whispered. &#8220;Let&#8217;s go sit beside the
D&#8217;Denir across from them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Jewels, Clod, and Parlin hung
back while Tonk Fah strolled away to watch the perimeter. Vivenna
and Denth approached the statue near to the forgers. Denth spread
out a blanket for her then stood to the side, as if he were a
manservant.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;One of the men beside the other
stature looked across as Vivenna sat down, then he nodded. The
others continued to eat. The Hallandren underground&#8217;s
penchant for working in broad daylight still unnerved Vivenna, but
she supposed it had advantages over skulking about at night.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You want some work
commissioned?&#8221; the forger closest to her asked, just loudly
enough that Vivenna could hear. It almost seemed part of his
conversation with his friends.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; she
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It costs.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I can pay.&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;re the
princess everyone is talking about?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She paused, noticing that
Denth&#8217;s hand leisurely going to his sword
hilt.&#160;&#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; she
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Good,&#8221; the forger
said. &#8220;Working with royalty always means good coin. What is
it you desire?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Letters,&#8221; Vivenna
said. &#8220;I want them to appear as if they were between certain
members of the Hallandren priesthood and the king of Idris. They
need to have official seals and signatures.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Difficult,&#8221; the
man said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna pulled something from
her dress pocket. &#8220;I have a letter written in King
Dedalin&#8217;s hand. It has his seal on the wax, his signature at
the bottom.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man seemed intrigued,
though she could only see the side of his face. &#8220;That makes
it possible. Still hard. What do you want these documents to
prove?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That these particular
priests are corrupt,&#8221; Vivenna said. &#8220;I have a list on
this sheet. I want you to make it seem like they&#8217;ve been
extorting Idris for years, making the king pay money and make
promises to prevent war. I want you to show that Idris
doesn&#8217;t want war and that the priests are
hypocrites.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man nodded. &#8220;Is that
everything?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It can be done.
We&#8217;ll be in touch. Instructions and explanations are on the
back of the paper?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;As requested,&#8221;
Vivenna said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The group of men stood, a
servant moving forward to pack up their lunch. As he did so, he let
a napkin blow in the wind, then rushed over and picked it up,
grabbing Vivenna&#8217;s paper too.&#160; Soon, all of them were
gone.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well?&#8221; Vivenna
asked, looking up.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Good,&#8221; Denth said,
nodding to himself. &#8220;You&#8217;re becoming an
expert.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna smiled, settling back
on her blanket to wait. The next appointment consisted of a group
of thieves who had stolen--at Vivenna and Denth&#8217;s
request--various goods from the war offices in the Hallandren
bureaucratic building. The documents were of relatively little
import, but their absence would cause confusion and
frustration.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That appointment wasn&#8217;t
for a few hours, which meant she could enjoy a bit of time relaxing
on the lawn, away from the unnatural colors of the city. Denth
seemed to sense her inclination, and he sat down, lounging back
against the side of the statue. As Vivenna waited, she again saw
that Parlin was over talking to Jewels again. Denth was right;
though his clothing looked ridiculous to her, that was because she
<i>knew</i> him as an Idrian. Looking at him another way, she saw
that he fit remarkably well with other young men in the city.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>That&#8217;s well and good
for him,</i> Vivenna thought with annoyance, looking away. <i>He
can dress as he wishes--he doesn&#8217;t have to worry about his
neckline or skirt length.</i> .</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Jewels laughed. It was almost
more of a snort of derision, but there was <i>some</i> mirth in it.
Or so it seemed. Vivenna looked back immediately, watching Jewels
roll her eyes at Parlin, a self-effacing smirk on his face. He knew
he&#8217;d said something wrong.&#160; He didn&#8217;t know what.
Vivenna knew him well enough to read the expression and to know
that he&#8217;d just smile and go along with it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Jewels saw his face, then
laughed again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna gritted her teeth.
&#8220;I should send him back to Idris,&#8221; she said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth turned, looking down at
her. &#8220;Hum?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Parlin,&#8221; she said.
&#8220;I sent my other guides back. I should have sent him too. He
serves no function.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He&#8217;s quick at
adapting to situations,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;And he&#8217;s
trustworthy. That&#8217;s good enough reason to keep
him.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He&#8217;s a
fool,&#8221; Vivenna said. &#8220;Has trouble understanding half of
what goes on around him.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He&#8217;s not got the
wit of a scholar, true, but he seems to instinctively know how to
blend in.&#160; Besides, we can&#8217;t all be geniuses like
you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She glanced at Denth.&#160;
&#8220;What does that mean?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It means,&#8221; Denth
said, &#8220;that you shouldn&#8217;t let your hair change colors
in public, Princess.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna started, noticing that
her hair had shifted from a still, calm black to the red of
frustration. <i>Lord of Colors!</i> she thought. <i>I used to be so
good at controlling that. What is happening to me?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Don&#8217;t
worry,&#8221; Denth said, settling back. &#8220;Jewels has
<i>no</i> interest in your friend. I promise you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna snorted.
&#8220;Parlin?&#160; Why should I care?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, I don&#8217;t
know,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;Maybe because you and he have been
practically engaged to him since you were children?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s completely
untrue,&#8221; Vivenna said. &#8220;I&#8217;ve been engaged to the
God King since before my birth!&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And your father always
wished you could marry the son of his best friend instead,&#8221;
Denth said. &#8220;At least, that&#8217;s what Parlin says.&#8221;
He eyed her with a smirk.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That boy talks too
much.&#8221;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Actually, he&#8217;s
usually rather quiet,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;You have to pry
quite a bit to get him to talk about himself. Either way, Jewels
has other ties. So stop your worrying.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m not
worried,&#8221; Vivenna said. &#8220;And I&#8217;m <i>not</i>
interested in Parlin.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course
not.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna opened her mouth to
object, but she noticed Tonk Fah wandering over, and didn&#8217;t
want <i>him</i> to start into the discussion as well. She snapped
her jaw shut as the large-gutted mercenary joined them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Flood,&#8221; Tonk Fah
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Hum?&#8221; Denth
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Rhymes with
blood,&#8221; Tonk Fah said. &#8220;Now you can be poetic. Flood of
Blood. It even has as a nice visual image. Far better than
tastebud.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ah, I see,&#8221; Denth
said flatly. &#8220;Tonk Fah?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;re an
idiot.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Thanks.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna stood up and began to
walk through the statues, studying them--if only to get herself
away from having to watch Parlin and Jewels. Tonk Fah and Denth
trailed along behind at a comfortable distance, keeping a watchful
eye.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;There was a beauty to the
statues. They weren&#8217;t like the other kinds of art in
T&#8217;Telir--flashy paintings, colorful buildings, exaggerated
clothing. The D&#8217;Denir were solid blocks which had aged with
dignity. The Hallandrens, of course, did their best to destroy this
with the scarves, hats, or other colorful bits they tied on the
stone memorials. Fortunately, there were too many in this garden
for them to all be decorated.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They stood, somehow more solid
than much of the city. Most stared up into the sky or looked
straight ahead. Each one was different, each pose distinct, each
face constructed differently. <i>It must have taken decades to
create all of these,</i> she thought. <i>Perhaps that&#8217;s where
the Hallandrens got their penchant for art. Their very first king
ordered an artistic project that took a lifetime to
complete.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hallandren was such a place of
contradictions. Warriors to represent peace. Idrians who exploited
each other and protected each other at the same time. Mercenaries
who seemed to be among the best men she had ever known. Bright
colors that created a uniformity.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And, above it all, BioChromatic
Breath. It was exploitive, yet people like Jewels seemed to see
giving up their Breath as a privilege. Contradictions. The question
was, could Vivenna afford to become another contradiction? A person
who bent her beliefs in order to see that they were preserved?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The Breaths <i>were</i>
wonderful. It was more than just the beauty or the ability to hear
changes in sound and sense intrinsically the distinct hues of
color. It was even more than the ability to sense life around her.
More than the sounds of the wind, the tones of people talking, or
her ability to feel her way through a group of people and move with
the motions of a crowd.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was a connection.&#160; The
world around her felt <i>close</i>. Even items like her clothing or
discarded twigs on the ground felt near to her. They were which
were dead, yet seemed to yearn for life again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She could give it to them. They
remembered life and she could Awaken those memories. But what good
would it do to save her people if she lost herself?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Denth doesn&#8217;t seem
lost,</i> she thought. <i>He and the other mercenaries can separate
what they believe from what they are forced to do.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;In her quiet opinion, that was
why people regarded mercenaries like they did. If you divorced
belief from action, then you were on dangerous ground.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>No,</i> she thought. <i>No
Awakening for me.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The Breath would remain as it
was. If it tempted her too much further, she would give the lot
away to somebody who had none.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And become a Drab herself.</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Twenty-Nine</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Tell me about the
mountains,</i> Susebron wrote.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri smiled.&#160;
&#8220;Mountains?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Please,</i> he wrote,
sitting in his chair beside the bed. Siri lay on one side; her
bulky dress had been too hot for this evening, so she sat in her
shift with a sheet over her, resting on one elbow so she could see
what he wrote. The fire crackled.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t know what
you tell you,&#8221; she said. &#8220;I mean, the mountains
aren&#8217;t amazing like the wonders you have in T&#8217;Telir.
You have so many colors, so much variety.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I think that rocks sticking
from the ground and which rise thousands of feet into the air count
as a wonder,</i> he wrote.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I guess,&#8221; she
said.&#160; &#8220;I liked it in Idris--I didn&#8217;t really ever
want to know anything else. For someone like you, though, it would
probably be boring.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>More boring than sitting in
the same palace every day, not allowed to leave, not allowed to
speak, being dressed and pampered?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Okay, you
win.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Tell me of them, please.</i>
His handwriting was getting very good. Plus, the more he wrote, the
more he seemed to understand. She wished so much that she could
find him books to read--she suspected that he&#8217;d absorb them
quickly, becoming as learned as any of the scholars who had tried
to tutor her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And yet, all he had was Siri.
He seemed to appreciate what she gave him--but that was probably
just because he didn&#8217;t know just how ignorant she was. <i>I
suspect</i>, she thought, <i>that my tutors would laugh themselves
silly if they knew how much I&#8217;d come to regret ignoring
them.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The mountains are. .
.vast,&#8221; she said. &#8220;You can&#8217;t really get a sense
of it here, in the lowlands. &#160;It&#8217;s by watching them that
you get a sense of just how insignificant people really are. I
mean, no matter how long we worked and built, we could never pile
up <i>anything</i> as high as one of the mountains.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They&#8217;re rocks,
like you said, but they&#8217;re not lifeless. They&#8217;re
green--as green as your jungles. But it&#8217;s a different green.
I heard some of the traveling merchants complain that the mountains
cut off their view, but I think you can see <i>more</i>. They let
you see the surface of the land as it extends upward, toward
Austre&#8217;s domain in the sky.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He paused. <i>Austre?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri flushed, hair blushing as
well. &#8220;I&#8217;m sorry. I probably shouldn&#8217;t talk about
other gods in front of you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Other gods?</i> he wrote.
<i>Like those in the court?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; Siri
said.&#160; &#8220;Austre is the Idrian God.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I understand,</i> Susebron
wrote. <i>Is he very handsome?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri laughed. &#8220;No, you
don&#8217;t understand. He&#8217;s not a Returned, like you or
Lightsong. He&#8217;s. . .well, I don&#8217;t know. Didn&#8217;t
the priests mention other religions to you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Other religions?</i> he
wrote.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Sure,&#8221; she said.
&#8220;I mean, not everybody worships the Returned. The Idrians
like me worship Austre, and the Pahn Kahl people--like Bluefingers.
. .well, I don&#8217;t actually know what they worship, but
it&#8217;s not you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>That is very strange to
consider,</i> he wrote. <i>If your gods are not Returned, then what
are they?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Not they,&#8221; Siri
said.&#160; &#8220;Just one. We call him Austre. The Hallandren
used to worship him too before. . . .&#8221; She almost said before
they became heretics. &#8220;Before Peacegiver arrived, and they
decided to worship the Returned instead.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>But who is this Austre?</i>
he wrote.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He&#8217;s not a
person,&#8221; Siri said. &#8220;He&#8217;s more of a force. You
know, the thing that watches over all people, who punishes those
who don&#8217;t do what is right and who blesses those who are
worthy.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Have you met this
creature?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri laughed. &#8220;Of course
not. You can&#8217;t see Austre.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron frowned, looking at
her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I know,&#8221; she
said.&#160; &#8220;It seems silly to you, I&#8217;ll bet. But. .
.well, we know he&#8217;s there. My sister, Vivenna, she knows a
lot more about this than I do. But I&#8217;ve always believed. When
I see something beautiful in nature--when I look at the mountains,
with their wildflowers growing in patterns that are somehow more
<i>right</i> than a man could have planted--I know. Beauty is real.
That&#8217;s what reminds me of Austre. Plus, we&#8217;ve got the
Returned--including the First Returned, Vo. He had the Five Visions
before he died, and they <i>must</i> have come from
somewhere.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>But, you don&#8217;t believe
in worshiping the Returned?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri shrugged. &#8220;I
haven&#8217;t decided yet. My people teach strongly against it.
They&#8217;re not fond of the way that Hallandrens see
religion.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He sat quietly for a long
moment.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>So. . .you do not like those
such as me?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What? Of course I like
you! You&#8217;re sweet!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He frowned, writing. <i>I do
not think God Kings are supposed to be &#8220;sweet.&#8221;</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Fine, then,&#8221; she
said, rolling her eyes. &#8220;You&#8217;re terrible and mighty.
Awesome and deific. And sweet.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Much better,</i> he wrote,
smiling. <i>I should very much like to meet this Austre.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;ll introduce you
to some monks sometime,&#8221; Siri said. &#8220;They should be
able to help you with that.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Now you are mocking
me.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri smiled as he looked up at
her. &#160;There was no hurt in his eyes. He didn&#8217;t appear to
mind being mocked; indeed, he seemed to find it very interesting.
He particularly liked trying to pick out when she was being serious
and when she wasn&#8217;t.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He looked down again. <i>More
than meeting with this god, however, I should like to see the
mountains. You seem to love them very much.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I do,&#8221; Siri said.
It had been a time since she&#8217;d thought of Idris. But, as he
mentioned it, she remembered the cool, open feeling of the fields
she had run through not so long before. The chill of the crisp
air--something that she suspected one could never find in
Hallandren.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Plants in the Court of Gods
were kept perfectly clipped, cultivated, and arranged. They were
beautiful, but the wild fields of her homeland had their own
special feel.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron was writing again.
<i>I suspect that the mountains are beautiful, as you have
said.&#160; However, I believe the most beautiful thing in them has
already come down to me.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri started, then flushed. He
seemed so open, not even a little embarrassed or shy about the bold
compliment. &#8220;Susebron!&#8221; she said. &#8220;You have the
heart of a charmer.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Charmer?</i> He wrote. <i>I
must only speak what I see. There is nothing so wonderful as you,
even in my entire Court. The mountains must be special indeed, to
produce such beauty.</i>&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;See, now you&#8217;ve
gone too far,&#8221; she said. &#8220;I&#8217;ve <i>seen</i> the
goddesses of your court. They&#8217;re far more beautiful than I
am.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Beauty is not about how a
person looks,</i> Susebron wrote. <i>My mother taught me this. The
travelers in my storybook must not judge the old woman ugly, for
she might be a beautiful goddess inside.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;This isn&#8217;t a
story, Susebron.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Yes it is,</i> he said.
<i>All of those stories are just tales told by people who lived
lives. What they say about humankind is true. I have watched and
seen how people act.</i>&#160; He erased, then continued. <i>It is
strange, for me, to interpret these things, for I do not see as
normal men do. I am the God King. Everything, to my eyes, has the
same beauty.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri frowned. &#8220;I
don&#8217;t understand.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I have thousands of
Breaths,</i> he wrote. <i>It is hard to see as other people
do--only through the stories of my mother can I understand their
ways. All colors are beauty in my eyes. When you look at
something--a person--they seem sometimes more beautiful than
others.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>This is not so for me. I see
only the color. The rich, wondrous colors that make up all things
and gives them life. I cannot focus only on the face, like so many
do. I see the sparkle of the eyes, the blush of the cheeks, the
tones of skin--even each blemish is a distinct pattern. All people
are wonderful.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He erased. <i>And so, when I
speak of beauty, I must speak of things other than these colors.
And you are different. I do not know how to describe it.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He looked up, and suddenly Siri
was aware of just how close they were to each other. She, only in
her shift, with the thin sheet covering her. He, tall and broad as
a giant, shining with a soul that made the colors of the sheets
bend out like light through a prism. He smiled in the
firelight.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Oh, dear. . . .</i> she
thought. <i>This is dangerous.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She cleared her throat, sitting
up, flushing yet again. &#8220;Well. Um, yes. Very nice. Thank
you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He looked back down. <i>I wish
I could let you go home, to see your mountains again. Perhaps I
could explain this to the priests.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She paled. &#8220;I don&#8217;t
think it would be good to let them know that you can
read.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I could use the
artisan&#8217;s script. &#160;It is very difficult to write, but
they taught it to me so I could communicate with them, if I needed
to.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Still,&#8221; she
said.&#160; &#8220;Telling them you want to send me home could hint
that you&#8217;ve been talking to me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He stopped writing for a few
moments.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Maybe that would be a good
thing,</i> he said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Susebron, they&#8217;re
planning to <i>kill</i> you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You have no proof of
that.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, it&#8217;s
suspicious, at least,&#8221; she said. &#8220;The last two God
Kings died within months of producing an heir.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You&#8217;re too
untrusting,</i> Susebron said. <i>I keep telling you. My priests
are good people.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She regarded him flatly,
catching his eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Except for removing my
tongue,</i> he admitted.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And keeping you locked
up, and not telling you anything. Look, even if they aren&#8217;t
planning to kill you, they know things they&#8217;re not telling
you. Perhaps it&#8217;s something to do with BioChroma--something
that makes you die once your heir arrives.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She frowned, leaning back.
<i>Could that be it?</i> she wondered suddenly. &#8220;Susebron,
how do you pass on your Breaths?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He paused. <i>I don&#8217;t
know,</i> he wrote. <i>I. . .don&#8217;t know a lot about
it.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t
either,&#8221; she said. &#8220;Can they take them from you? Give
them to your son? What if that kills you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>They wouldn&#8217;t do
that,</i> he wrote.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But maybe it&#8217;s
possible,&#8221; she said. &#8220;And maybe that&#8217;s what
happens. That&#8217;s why having a child is so dangerous! They have
to make a new God King and it kills you to do so.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He sat with his board in his
lap, then shook his head, writing. <i>I am a God. I am not given
Breaths, I am born with them.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; Siri
said.&#160; &#8220;Bluefingers told me you&#8217;d been collecting
them for centuries. That each God King gets two Breaths a week,
instead of one, building up his reserves.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Actually,</i> he admitted,
<i>some weeks I get three or four.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But you only need one to
survive.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Yes.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And they can&#8217;t let
that wealth die with you! They&#8217;re too afraid of it to let you
use it, but they also can&#8217;t let themselves lose it. So, when
a new child is born, they take the Breath from the old
king--killing him--and give it to the new one.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>But Returned can not use
their Breath for Awakening,</i> he wrote. <i>So my treasure of
Breaths is useless.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;This gave her pause.&#160; She
<i>had</i> heard that.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron sat for a few moments,
and then finally he rose, walking across to the window. He stared
out at the darkness beyond. Siri frowned, then picked up his board
and crossed the room. She approached hesitantly, wearing only her
shift.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Susebron?&#8221; she
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He continued to stare out the
window. She joined him, careful not to touch him, looking
out.&#160; Colorful lights sparkled the city beyond the wall of the
Court of Gods. Beyond that was darkness. The still sea.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Please,&#8221; she said,
pushing the board into his hands. &#8220;What is it?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He paused, then took it. <i>I
am sorry,</i> he wrote. <i>I do not wish to appear
petulant.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Is it because I keep
challenging your priests?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>No,</i> he wrote. <i>You
have interesting theories, but I think they are just guesses. You
do not know that the priests plan what you claim. That
doesn&#8217;t bother me.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What is it,
then?&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He hesitated, then erased with
the sleeve of his robe. <i>You do not believe that the Returned are
divine.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I. . .thought we already
talked about this.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>We did. However, I now
realized that</i> this <i>is the reason why you treat me like you
do. You are different because you do not believe in my godhood. I
wonder, is that the only reason I find you interesting?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>And, if you do not believe,
it makes me sad. Because a god is who I am, it is what I am, and if
you do not believe in it, it makes me think you do not understand
me.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He paused.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Yes. It does sound petulant.
I am sorry.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She smiled, then tentatively
touched his arm. He froze, looking down, but didn&#8217;t pull back
as he had times before. So she moved up beside him, resting against
his arm.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t have to
believe in you to understand you,&#8221; she said. &#8220;I&#8217;d
say that those people who worship you are the ones who don&#8217;t
understand. They can&#8217;t get close to you, see who you really
are. They&#8217;re to focused on the aura and the
divinity.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He didn&#8217;t respond.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And,&#8221; she said,
&#8220;I&#8217;m not different <i>just</i> because I don&#8217;t
believe in you. There are a lot of people in the palace who
don&#8217;t believe. Bluefingers, some of the serving girls who
wear brown, other scribes. They serve you just as reverently as the
priests. I&#8217;m just. . .well, I&#8217;m an irreverent type. I
didn&#8217;t really listen to my father or the monks back home,
either. Maybe that&#8217;s what you need. Someone who would be
willing to look beyond your godhood and just get to know
you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He nodded slowly. <i>That is
comforting</i>, he wrote. <i>Though, it is very strange to be a god
who&#8217;s wife does not believe in him.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Wife,</i> she thought.
Sometimes that was tough to remember. &#8220;Well,&#8221; she said,
&#8220;I should think it would do every man good to have a wife who
isn&#8217;t as in awe of him as everyone else is. Somebody has to
keep you humble.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Humility is, I believe,
somewhat opposite of godhood.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Like sweetness?&#8221;
she asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He chuckled. <i>Yes, just like
that.</i> He put the board down. Then, hesitantly--a little
frightened--he put his arm around her shoulders, pulling her closer
as they looked out the window at the lights of a city that remained
colorful, even at night.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bodies. Four of them.&#160;
They all lay dead on the ground, blood an oddly dark color against
the grass.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was the day after
Vivenna&#8217;s visit to the D&#8217;Denir garden to meet with the
forgers. &#160;She was back again. Sunlight streamed down, hot upon
her head and neck as she stood with the rest of the gawking crowd.
The silent D&#8217;Denir waited in rows behind her, soldiers of
stone who would never march. Only they had seen the four men get
killed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;People chattered with hushed
voices, waiting for the city guard to finish their inspection.
Denth had brought Vivenna quickly, before the bodies could be
cleared. He had done so at her request. Now she wished she&#8217;d
never asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;To her enhanced, Awakener eyes,
the colors of the blood on grass were powerfully distinct. Red and
green. It made almost a violet in combination. She stared at the
corpses, feeling an odd sense of disconnect. Color. So strange to
see the colors of skin paled. &#160;She could tell the
difference--the intrinsic difference--between skin that was alive
and skin that was dead.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dead skin was ten shades whiter
than live skin. It was caused by blood seeping down and out of the
veins. Almost like. . .like the blood <i>was</i> the color, drained
out of its husks. The paint of a human life which had been
carelessly spilt, leaving the canvas blank.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She looked away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You see it?&#8221; Denth
said, at her side.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She nodded silently.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You asked about
him.&#160; Well, here&#8217;s what he does. <i>This</i> is why
we&#8217;re so worried. Look at those wounds.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She turned back. And, in the
growing morning light, she could see something she&#8217;d missed
before. The skin directly around the sword wounds had been
completely drained of color. The wounds themselves had a dark black
twinge to them. Like they had been infected with some terrible
disease.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She turned back to
Denth.&#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Let&#8217;s go,&#8221;
Denth said, leading her away from the crowd as the city watch
finally began to order people back, frustrated by the number of
gawkers.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Who were they?&#8221;
she asked quietly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth stared straight ahead.
&#8220;A gang of thieves. Ones we&#8217;d worked with.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You think he might come
for us?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m not
sure,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;He could probably find us if he
wanted. I don&#8217;t know.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tonk Fah approached across the
green as they passed through the D&#8217;Denir statues.
&#8220;Jewels and Clod are on alert,&#8221; Tonk Fah said.
&#8220;None of us see him anywhere.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What happened to the
skin of those men?&#8221; Vivenna asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s that sword of
his,&#8221; Denth growled. &#8220;We <i>have</i> to find a way to
deal with it, Tonks.&#160; We&#8217;re going to end up crossing
him, eventually. I can feel it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But what is the
sword?&#8221; Vivenna asked. &#8220;And how did it drain the color
from their skin?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We&#8217;ll have to
steal the thing, Denth,&#8221; Tonk Fah said, rubbing his chin as
Jewels and Clod filled in around them, making a protective pattern
as they moved out into the human river of the street.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Steal the sword?&#8221;
Denth asked. &#8220;I&#8217;m not touching the thing. No, we have
to make him use it.&#160; Draw it. He won&#8217;t be able to keep
it out for long. After that, we&#8217;ll be able to take him
easily. I&#8217;ll kill him myself.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He beat Arsteel,&#8221;
Jewels said quietly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth froze. &#8220;He did
<i>not</i> beat Arsteel! Not in a duel, at least.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Vasher didn&#8217;t use
the sword,&#8221; Jewels said. &#8220;There was no blackness around
Arsteel&#8217;s wounds.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then Vasher used a
trick!&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;Ambush. Accomplices. Something.
Vasher is no duelist.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna let herself get pulled
along, thinking of those bodies. Denth and the others had spoken of
the deaths this Vasher was causing. She&#8217;d wanted to see them.
Well, now she had.&#160; And it left her feeling disturbed.
Unsettled. And. . . .</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She frowned, inching
slightly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Someone with a lot of Breath
was watching her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Hey!</i> Nightblood said.
<i>It&#8217;s Varatridees! We should go talk to him. He&#8217;ll be
happy to see me.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher stood quietly atop the
building. He didn&#8217;t really care who saw him. He rarely did. A
flow of people passed on the colorful street. Varatridees--Denth,
as he called himself now--walked among them with his team. The
woman, Jewels. Tonk Fah, as always. The clueless princess. And the
abomination.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Is Shashara here?</i>
Nightblood asked, excitement in his nebulous voice. <i>We need to
go see her!&#160; She&#8217;ll be worried about what happened to
me.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We killed Shashara long
ago, Nightblood,&#8221; Vasher said. &#8220;Just like we killed
Arsteel.&#8221; <i>Just like we&#8217;ll eventually kill
Denth.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;As usual, Nightblood refused to
acknowledge Shashara&#8217;s death. <i>She made me, you know,</i>
Nightblood said. <i>Made me to destroy things that were evil.
I&#8217;m rather good at it. I think she&#8217;d be proud of me. We
should go talk to her. &#160;Show her how well I do my job.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You are good at
it,&#8221; Vasher whispered. &#8220;Too good.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Nightblood began to hum
quietly, pleased at the perceived praise. Vasher, however, focused
on the princess, walking in her obviously exotic dress, standing
out like a flake of snow in the tropical heat. He would need to do
something about her. Because of her, so many things were falling
apart. Plans toppling like stacked boxes, creating a racket with
their demise. He didn&#8217;t know where Denth had found her or how
he kept control of her. However, Vasher was sorely tempted to jump
down and let Nightblood take her. &#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The deaths the night before had
already drawn too much attention. Nightblood was right. Vasher
wasn&#8217;t good at sneaking about. Rumors regarding him were
prevalent in the city. That was both good and bad.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Later,</i> he thought,
turning from the silly girl and her mercenary entourage.
<i>Later.</i></p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Thirty</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Lightsong!&#8221;
Blushweaver said, hands on hips. &#8220;What in the name of the
Iridescent Tones are you doing?&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong ignored her, instead
applying his hands to the clump of muddy clay in front of him. His
servants and priests stood in a large ring, looking nearly as
confused as Blushweaver--who had arrived at his pavilion just a few
moments before.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The pottery wheel spun.&#160;
He held the clay, trying to get it to stay in place. Sunlight shone
in through the sides of the pavilion, and the neat, manicured grass
beneath his table was flaked with mud. As the wheel sped up, the
clay twirled about, flipping out bits and clumps. Lightsong&#8217;s
hands became soaked with grimy, slick clay, and it didn&#8217;t
take long for the entire mess to flip off the wheel and squish to
the ground.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Hum,&#8221; he said,
regarding it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Have you taken leave of
your senses?&#8221; Blushweaver asked. She wore one of her
customary dresses--which meant nothing on the sides, very little at
the top, and only slightly more through the front and back. She had
her hair up in an intricate twisting pattern of weaves, braids, and
ribbon. Likely the work of a master stylist, who had been invited
into the Court to perform for one of the gods.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong hopped to his feet,
holding his hands out to the sides as servants rushed to wash them
off.&#160; Others came and wiped the bits of clay from his fine
robes. He stood thoughtfully as other servants removed the pottery
wheel.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well?&#8221; Blushweaver
asked. &#8220;What <i>was</i> that?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I just discovered that I
am no good at making pottery,&#8221; Lightsong said.
&#8220;Actually, I am worse than &#8216;no good.&#8217; I am
pathetic. Ridiculously bad. Can&#8217;t even get the blasted clay
to stay on the wheel.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well what did you
expect?&#8221;.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m not
sure,&#8221; Lightsong said, walking across the pavilion toward a
long table. Blushweaver--obviously annoyed at being led
along--followed. Lightsong spun, grabbing five lemons off of the
table and throwing them into the air. He proceeded juggle them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver watched.&#160; And,
for just a moment, she looked honestly concerned.
&#8220;Lightsong?&#8221; she asked. &#8220;Dear. Is. . .everything
all right?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I have never practiced
juggling,&#8221; he said, watching the lemons. &#8220;Here, grab
that guava fruit.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She hesitated, then carefully
picked up the guava.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Throw it,&#8221;
Lightsong said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She tossed it at him.&#160; He
deftly grabbed it from the air, then threw it into the mix with the
lemons.&#160; &#8220;I didn&#8217;t know I could do this,&#8221; he
said. &#8220;Not before today. What do you make of it?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I. . . .&#8221; she
cocked her head.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He laughed. &#8220;I
don&#8217;t know that I&#8217;ve ever seen you at a loss for words,
my dear.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t know that
I&#8217;ve ever seen another god throwing fruit into the
air.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s more than
this,&#8221; Lightsong said, dipping down as he nearly lost one of
the lemons. &#8220;Today I have discovered that I know an irregular
number of sailing terms, that I am fantastic at mathematics, and
that I have a fairly good eye for sketching. On the other hand, I
know nothing about the dying industry, horses, or gardening.&#160;
I have no eye for sculpting, I can&#8217;t speak any foreign
languages, and--as you&#8217;ve seen--I&#8217;m terrible at
pottery.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver watched him for a
second.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He looked at her, letting the
lemons drop but snatching the guava out of the air. He tossed it to
a servant, who began peeling it for him. &#8220;My previous life,
Blushweaver.&#160; These are skills that I--Lightsong--have no
right to know. Whomever I was before I died, <i>he</i> could
juggle. He knew about sailing. And he could sketch.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We&#8217;re not supposed
to worry about the people we were before,&#8221; Blushweaver
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m a god,&#8221;
Lightsong said, taking back a plate containing the peeled and
sliced guava, then offering a piece to Blushweaver. &#8220;And, by
the Colors, I&#8217;ll worry about whatever I please.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She paused, then smiled and
took slice. &#8220;Just when I thought I had you figured out. . .
.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You didn&#8217;t have me
figured out,&#8221; he said lightly. &#8220;And neither did I.
That&#8217;s the point. Shall we go?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She nodded, joining him as they
began to cross the lawn, their servants bringing parasols to shade
them. &#8220;You can&#8217;t tell me that you&#8217;ve never
wondered,&#8221; Lightsong said.&#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My dear,&#8221; she
replied, sucking on a guava piece, &#8220;I was <i>boring</i>
before.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;How do you
know?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Because I was a regular
person! I would have been. . .ordinary. Have you <i>seen</i>
regular women?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Their proportions
aren&#8217;t quite up to your standards, I know,&#8221; he said.
&#8220;But many are quite attractive.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver shivered.&#160;
&#8220;Please. Why would you want to know about your normal life?
What if you were a murderer or a rapist? What if you had bad
fashion sense?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He snorted at the twinkle in
her eye. &#8220;You act so shallow. But I see the curiosity. You
should try some of these things, let them tell you a little of who
you were.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Hum,&#8221; she said,
smiling and siding up to him. He stopped as she ran her finger down
the front of his chest. &#8220;Well, if you&#8217;re trying new
things today, maybe there&#8217;s something else you ought to think
about. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Don&#8217;t try and
change the subject, my dear.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m not,&#8221;
she said.&#160; &#8220;But, how will you know who you were if you
don&#8217;t try? It would be an. . .experiment.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong laughed, pushing her
hand away. &#8220;My dear, I fear you would find me less than
satisfactory.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I think you
over-estimate me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s impossible
for one to do.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She paused, flushing
slightly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Uh. . . .&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;Hum. I didn&#8217;t exactly mean. . .
.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, bother,&#8221; she
said. &#8220;Now you&#8217;ve spoiled the moment. I was about to
say something very clever, I just know it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He smiled. &#8220;Both of us,
at a loss for words in one afternoon. I do believe we&#8217;re
losing our touch.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You could find <i>my</i>
touch if you&#8217;d just let yourself.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He rolled his eyes and
continued to walk. &#8220;You&#8217;re hopeless.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;When all else fails, use
sexual innuendo,&#8221; she said lightly, joining him. &#8220;It
always brings the focus back to where it belongs. On me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Hopeless,&#8221; he said
again. &#8220;But, I doubt we have time for me to chastise you
again. We&#8217;ve arrived.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Indeed, Hopefinder&#8217;s
palace was before them. Lavender and silver, it had a pavilion out
front set with table settings and food. Blushweaver and Lightsong
had, of course, arranged for the meeting ahead of time.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hopefinder the Just, god of
innocence and beauty, stood up as they approached. He looked to be
about thirteen years old. By physical age, he was the youngest of
the Gods in the court. They weren&#8217;t supposed to acknowledge
such discrepancies. After all, he&#8217;d Returned when his body
had been two, which put him--in God years--as Lightsong&#8217;s
senior by six years. In a place where most gods didn&#8217;t last
twenty years, and an average age was probably closer to ten, six
years difference was very significant.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Lightsong,
Blushweaver,&#8221; Hopefinder said, stiff and formal.
&#8220;Welcome.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Thank you, dear,&#8221;
Blushweaver said, smiling at him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hopefinder nodded then gestured
toward the tables. The three small tables were separate, but sat
closely enough together for the meal to remain intimate while
giving each God their own space.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;How have you been,
Hopefinder?&#8221; Lightsong asked, sitting.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Very well,&#8221;
Hopefinder said. His voice always seemed a little too. . .old for
his body. Like a boy trying to imitate his father. &#8220;There was
a particularly difficult case during Petitions this morning. A
mother with her last child, dying of the fevers.&#160; She&#8217;d
already lost the other three, as well as her husband. All in the
space of a year. Tragic.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My dear,&#8221;
Blushweaver said with concern. &#8220;You&#8217;re not actually
considering. . .passing your Breath, are you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hopefinder sat. &#8220;I
don&#8217;t know, Blushweaver. I am old. I feel old. Perhaps it is
time for me to go. I&#8217;m fifth most aged, you know.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, but with the times
growing so exciting!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Exciting?&#8221; he
asked.&#160; &#8220;Why, they&#8217;re calming down. The new queen
is here, and my sources in the palace say that she&#8217;s pursuing
her duties to produce an heir with great vigor.&#160; Stability
will soon arrive.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Stability?&#8221;
Blushweaver asked as the servants bought them each a chilled
soup.&#160; &#8220;Hopefinder, I find it hard to believe that
you&#8217;re <i>so</i> uninformed.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You think the Idrians
plan to use the new queen to play for the throne,&#8221; Hopefinder
said. &#8220;I know what you&#8217;ve been doing, Blushweaver. I
disagree.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And the rumors out in
the city?&#8221; Blushweaver said. &#8220;The Idrian agents who are
causing such a ruckus? This so called second princess out in the
city?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong paused, spoon halfway
to his lips. <i>What was that?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The city&#8217;s Idrians
are <i>always</i> creating one crisis or another,&#8221; Hopefinder
said, waving his fingers dismissively. &#8220;What was that
disturbance six months ago, the rebel on the outer dye plantations?
He died in prison, I recall. Foreign workers rarely provide a
stable societal underclass, but I don&#8217;t fear them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They&#8217;ve never
claimed to have a Royal agent working with them,&#8221; Blushweaver
said. &#8220;Things could get out of hand <i>very</i>
quickly.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My interests in the city
are quite secure,&#8221; Hopefinder said, lacing his fingers in
front of him.&#160; The servants took away his soup. He&#8217;d
taken only three sips. &#8220;How about yours?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s what this
meeting is for,&#8221; Blushweaver said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Excuse me,&#8221;
Lightsong said, raising a finger. &#8220;But what in the
<i>colors</i> are we talking about?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Unrest in the city,
Lightsong,&#8221; Hopefinder said. &#8220;Some of the locals are
unsettled by the prospect of war.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They could turn
dangerous very easily,&#8221; Blushweaver said, stirring her soup
with a lazy motion. &#8220;I think that we should be
prepared.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I am,&#8221; Hopefinder
said, watching Blushweaver with his too-young face. Like all
younger Returned--the God King included--Hopefinder would continue
to age until his body reached maturity. Then, he would stop
aging--just over the brink into adulthood--until he gave up his
Breath.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He acted so much like an adult.
Lightsong hadn&#8217;t interacted much with children, but some of
his attendants--when training--were youths. Hopefinder was not one
of these.&#160; Stories said that Hopefinder, like other young
returned, had matured very quickly during his first year of life
coming to think and speak as an adult while his body was still that
of a young child.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hopefinder and Blushweaver
continued to talk about the stability of the city, mentioning
various acts of vandalism that had occurred. War plans stolen, city
supply stations poisoned. Lightsong let them talk. <i>He
doesn&#8217;t seem to find Blushweaver&#8217;s beauty
distracting,</i> he thought as he watched. She began in on the
fruit course, acting characteristically luscious as she sucked on
pieces of pineapple. Hopefinder either didn&#8217;t care, or
didn&#8217;t notice, as she leaned forward, showing an alarming
amount of cleavage.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Something</i> is<i>different
about him,</i> Lightsong thought. <i>He Returned when he was a
child and acted like one for a very short time. Now, he&#8217;s an
adult in some ways, but a child in others.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The transformation had made
Hopefinder more mature. He was also taller and more physically
impressive than regular boys his age, even if he didn&#8217;t have
the chiseled, majestic features of a fully grown god.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>And yet,</i> Lightsong
thought, eating a piece of pineapple, <i>different Gods have
different body styles. Blushweaver is inhumanly well-endowed,
particularly for how thin she is.&#160; Yet Mercystar is plump and
curvaceous all around. Others, like Allmother, look physically
old.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong knew he knew he
didn&#8217;t deserve his powerful physique. Like the knowledge of
how to juggle, he somehow understood that a person usually had to
work hard in a labor job to obtain a muscular body. Lounging about,
eating and drinking, should have made him plump.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>But. . .there have been gods
who were fat,</i> he thought, remembering some of the pictures he
had seen of Returned who had come before him. <i>There was a time
in our culture when that was seen as the ideal. . . .</i> Then, did
Returned looks have something to do with the way society viewed
them? Perhaps their opinion of an ideal body? That would certainly
explain Blushweaver.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Some things survived the
transformation. Language. Skills. And, as he thought about it,
social competence. &#160;Considering the fact that the gods spent
their lives locked up atop a plateau, they probably should have
been far less well-adjusted than they were. At the very least, they
should have been ignorant and naive. Yet most of them were
consummate schemers with a surprisingly good grasp on what happened
in the outside world.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Memory itself didn&#8217;t
survive. Why? Why could Lightsong juggle and understand the meaning
of the word bowsprit, yet at the same time be unable to remember
who his parents had been? And who was that face he saw in his
dreams? Why storms and tempests?&#160; What was the red panther
that appeared, yet again, in his nightmares the night before?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Blushweaver,&#8221;
Hopefinder said, holding up a hand. &#8220;Enough. Before we go any
further, I must point out that your obvious attempts to seduce me
will gain you nothing.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver glanced away,
looking embarrassed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong shook himself out of
his contemplations. &#8220;My dear Hopefinder,&#8221; he said.
&#8220;She was <i>not</i> trying to seduce you. You must
understand; Blushweaver&#8217;s aura of allure is simply a part of
who she is; it&#8217;s part of what makes her so
charming.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Regardless,&#8221; he
said.&#160; &#8220;I will not be swayed by her paranoid arguments
and worries.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My contacts do not think
that these things are simple &#8216;paranoia,&#8217;&#8221;
Blushweaver said as the fruit dishes were removed. A small chilled
fish fillet arrived next.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Contacts?&#8221;
Hopefinder asked. &#8220;And just who are these
&#8216;contacts&#8217; you keep mentioning?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;People within the God
King&#8217;s palace itself.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We all have people in
the God King&#8217;s palace,&#8221; Hopefinder said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;No people. I thought about sending a dog in
there once, though.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver rolled her eyes.
&#8220;My contact is <i>quite</i> important. He hears things, knows
things.&#160; War <i>is</i> coming.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t believe
you,&#8221; he said, picking at his food, &#8220;but that
doesn&#8217;t really matter now, does it?&#160; You&#8217;re not
here to get me to believe you. You just want my army.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your codes,&#8221;
Blushweaver said. &#8220;Lifeless security phrases. What will it
cost us to get them?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hopefinder picked at his fish
some more. &#8220;Do you know, Blushweaver, why I find my existence
so boring?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shook he head.&#160;
&#8220;Honestly, I <i>still</i> think you&#8217;re bluffing on that
count, my dear.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m not,&#8221; he
said. &#8220;Eleven years. Eleven years of peace. Eleven years to
grow to sincerely loath this system of government we have. We all
attend the court of judgment. We listen to the arguments. But most
of us don&#8217;t matter. In any given vote, only those with sway
in that area have any real say over anything. During war comes,
those of us with Lifeless commands are important. The rest of the
time, our opinion rarely matters.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You want my
Lifeless?&#160; Be welcome to them! I have had no opportunity to
use then in eleven years, and I venture that another eleven will
pass without incident. I will give you those Commands,
Blushweaver--but only in exchange for <i>your</i> vote. You sit on
the council of social ills. You have an important vote practically
every week. In exchange for my Security Phrases, you must promise
to vote in social matters as I say, from now until one of us
dies.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The pavilion fell silent.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ah, so now you
reconsider,&#8221; Hopefinder said, smiling. &#8220;I&#8217;ve
heard you complain about your duties in court--that you find your
votes trivial. Well, it&#8217;s not so easy to let go of them, is
it? Your vote is all the influence you have. It isn&#8217;t flashy,
but it is potent. It--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Done,&#8221; Blushweaver
said sharply.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hopefinder cut off.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My vote is yours,&#8221;
Blushweaver said, meeting his eyes. &#8220;The terms are
acceptable. &#160;I swear it in front of your priests and mine,
before another god even.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>By the Colors,</i> Lightsong
thought. <i>She really</i> is <i>serious.</i> Part of him had
assumed, all along, that her posturing about the war was just
another game.&#160; Yet the woman who stared Hopefinder in the eyes
was not playing. She sincerely believed that Hallandren was in
danger, and she wanted to make certain that the armies were unified
and prepared. She cared.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And that left him worried. What
had he gotten himself into? What if there really was a war? As he
watched the interaction of the two gods, he was left chilled by how
easily and quickly they dealt in the fate of the Hallandren people.
To Hopefinder, his control of a quarter of the Hallandren armies
should have been a sacred duty. &#160;He was ready to toss that
aside simply because he had grown bored.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Who am I to chastise
another&#8217;s lack of piety?</i> Lightsong though. <i>I, who
don&#8217;t even believe in my own divinity.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And yet. . .at that moment, as
Hopefinder prepared to release his Commands to Blushweaver,
Lightsong thought he saw something. Like a remembered fragment of a
memory. A dream that he might never have dreamed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A shining room, glowing,
reflecting light. A room of steel.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A prison.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Servants and priests,
withdraw,&#8221; Hopefinder commanded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They retreated, leaving the
three gods alone beside their half-eaten meals, pavilion canvas
flapping slightly in the wind.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The security
phrase,&#8221; Hopefinder said, looking at Blushweaver, &#8220;is
&#8216;A candle by which to see.&#8217;&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was the title of a famous
poem, even Lightsong knew it. Blushweaver smiled. Speaking those
words to any of Hopefinder&#8217;s ten thousand Lifeless in the
barracks would allow her to override their current orders and take
complete control of them. Lightsong suspected that by the end of
the day, she&#8217;d make the trip down to the barracks--which lay
at the base of the court, and were considered part of it--and begin
imprinting Hopefinder&#8217;s soldiers with a new Security Phrase,
known only to her and perhaps a few of her most trusted
priests.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And now, I
withdraw,&#8221; Hopefinder said, standing. &#8220;There is a vote
this evening at the court. You will attend, Blushweaver, and you
will cast your vote in favor of the reformist arguments.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;With that, he left.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I feel like we just got
manipulated,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;It&#8217;s a very
curious feeling. A little like being stepped on, only without so
much foot odor.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We only got manipulated,
my dear, if there <i>isn&#8217;t</i> war. If there is, then we may
have just set ourselves up to save the entire Court--perhaps the
kingdom itself.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;How very altruistic of
us,&#8221; Lightsong said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We&#8217;re like
that,&#8221; Blushweaver said as the servants returned. &#8220;So
selfless at times it&#8217;s painful. &#160;Either way, that means
we control two god&#8217;s worth of Lifeless.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Mine and
Hopefinder&#8217;s?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Actually,&#8221; she
said, &#8220;I was speaking of Hopefinder&#8217;s and
Mercystar&#8217;s. She confided hers to me yesterday, all the while
talking about how comforting she found it that you&#8217;d taken a
personal interest in the incident at her palace. That was very well
done, by the way. She spoke about your thorough
investigation.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She seemed to be fishing for
something. Lightsong smiled. &#8220;No, I didn&#8217;t know that
would encourage her to release her Commands to you. I was just
curious.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Curious about a murdered
servant?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Actually, yes,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;The death of a servant of the Returned is
quite disconcerting to me, particularly in the proximity of our own
palaces.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver raised an
eyebrow.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Would I lie to
you?&#8221; Lightsong asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Only every time you
claim you don&#8217;t want to sleep with me. Lies, brazen
lies.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Innuendo again, my
dear?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course not,&#8221;
she said. &#8220;That one was quite flagrant. Regardless, I know
that you are lying about that investigation. What was the
<i>real</i> purpose of it?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong paused, then sighed,
shaking his head, waving for servant to bring back the fruit--he
liked that better. &#8220;I don&#8217;t know, Blushweaver. In all
honesty, I&#8217;m beginning to wonder if I might have been a kind
of officer of the law in my previous life.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She frowned.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You know, like city
watch. I was <i>extremely</i> good at interrogating those servants.
At least, that&#8217;s my own humble opinion.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Which we&#8217;ve
already established is quite altruistic.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Quite,&#8221; he agreed.
&#8220;I think this might explain how I ended up dying in
&#8220;bold&#8221; way, giving me my name.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver raised an eyebrow.
&#8220;I just always assumed you were found in bed with a much
younger woman and her father killed you. Seems far more bold than
dying from stab wounds while trying to catch some petty
thief.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your mockery slides
right off of my altruistic humility.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ah, indeed. You should
probably have been named the God of &#8220;putting up with
Blushweaver&#8221; for your heroics.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Either way,&#8221;
Lightsong said, eating another chunk of pineapple. &#8220;I was a
sheriff or investigator of some kind. I&#8217;ll bet that if I ever
got my hands on a sword, I&#8217;d prove one of the best duelists
this city has ever seen.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She regarded him for a moment.
&#8220;You&#8217;re serious.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Dead serious. Dead as a
squirrel serious.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She paused.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Personal joke,&#8221; he
said, sighing. &#8220;But yes, I believe it. Though, there&#8217;s
one thing I can&#8217;t figure out.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And that is?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;How juggling lemons fits
into it all.&#8221;</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Thirty-One</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I feel I have to ask one
more time,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;Do we <i>have</i> to go
through with this?&#8221;&#160; Denth walked with Vivenna, Tonk
Fah, Jewels, and Clod. Parlin had stayed behind at Vivenna&#8217;s
request.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They&#8217;re my people,
Denth&#8221; Vivenna said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So?&#8221; he
asked.&#160; &#8220;Princess, mercenaries are <i>my</i> people, and
you don&#8217;t see me spending that much time with them.
They&#8217;re a smelly, annoying lot.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Not to mention
rude,&#8221; Tonk Fah added.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna rolled her eyes.
&#8220;Denth, I&#8217;m their <i>princess</i>. Besides, you
yourself said that they were influential.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Their leaders
are,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;And they&#8217;d be perfectly happy
to meet with you on neutral ground. Going into the slums
isn&#8217;t necessary--the common people, they really aren&#8217;t
all that important.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She eyed him. &#8220;That is
the difference between Hallandrens and Idrians. We pay attention to
our people.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Behind, Jewels snorted in
derision.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m not
Hallandren,&#8221; Denth noted. However, he let the statement drop
as they approached the slums.&#160; Vivenna had to admit that as
they grew close, she did feel a little more apprehensive.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;This slum felt different than
the others. Darker, somehow. Something more than just the run-down
shops and unrepaired streets. Small groups of men stood on street
corners, watching her with suspicious eyes. Every once in a while,
Vivenna would catch a glimpse of a building with women in very
revealing clothing--even for Hallandren--hanging about the front.
Some even whistled toward Denth and Tonk Fah.&#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;This was a foreign place.
Everywhere else in T&#8217;Telir, she felt like she didn&#8217;t
fit in. Here, she felt unwelcome. Distrusted. Even hated.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She steeled herself.&#160;
Somewhere in this place was a group of tired, overworked,
frightened Idrians.&#160; The threatening atmosphere made her feel
even more sorry for her people. She didn&#8217;t know if they would
be much help in trying to sabotage the Hallandren war effort, but
she did know one thing: she intended to do help them. If people had
slipped through the monarchy&#8217;s fingers, then it was her duty
to try and pick them back up.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That look on your
face,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;What&#8217;s it for?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m worried about
my people,&#8221; she said, shivering as they passed a large group
of street toughs dressed in black with red arm-bands, their faces
stained and dirtied. &#8220;I came by this slum when Parlin and I
were searching for a new home. I. . .I didn&#8217;t want to get
close, even though I&#8217;d heard that prices were cheap. I
can&#8217;t believe that my people are so oppressed that they would
have to live somewhere in here, surrounded by all of
<i>this</i>.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth frowned.&#160;
&#8220;Surrounded by it?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna nodded. &#8220;Living
among prostitutes and gangs, having to walk past such things every
day. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth started laughing,
startling her. &#8220;Princess,&#8221; he said, &#8220;your people
don&#8217;t live <i>among</i> prostitutes and gangs. Your people
<i>are</i> the prostitutes and gangs.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna stopped in the middle
of the street. &#8220;What?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth glanced back at her.
&#8220;This is the Idrian quarter of the city. These slums are
called the Highlands, for Color&#8217;s sake.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Impossible,&#8221; she
snapped.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Very possible,&#8221;
Denth replied. &#8220;I&#8217;ve seen it in cities across the
world. Immigrants gather, make a little enclave. That enclave gets
conveniently ignored by the rest of the city. When roads are
repaired, other places come first. When guards are sent to patrol,
they avoid the foreign sections.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The slum becomes its own
little world,&#8221; Tonk Fah said, walking up beside her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Everyone you pass in
here is an Idrian,&#8221; Denth said, waving for her to keep
walking. &#8220;There&#8217;s a reason your kind have a bad
reputation in the rest of the city.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna felt a numb
chill.&#160; <i>No,</i> she thought. <i>No, it&#8217;s not
possible.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Unfortunately, she soon began
to see some signs. Symbols of Austre placed--unobtrusive by
intention--in the corners of windowsills or on doorsteps. People in
grays and whites. Mementoes of the highlands in the form of
shepherd&#8217;s caps or wool cloaks. And yet, if this people were
of Idris, then they&#8217;d been completely corrupted. Colors
marred their costumes, not to mention the air of danger and
unwelcomeness they exuded. And how could any Idrian even
<i>think</i> of becoming a prostitute?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I. . .don&#8217;t
understand, Denth. We are a peaceful people. A people of mountain
villages. We are open. Friendly.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That kind doesn&#8217;t
last long in a slum,&#8221; he said, walking beside her.
&#8220;They change or they get beaten down.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna shivered, feeling a
stab of anger at Hallandren. &#160;<i>They did this to my
people,</i> she thought. <i>I could have forgiven the Hallandren
for making my people poor. But this? They&#8217;ve made thugs and
thieves out of caring shepherds. They&#8217;ve turned our women
into prostitutes and our children to urchins.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She knew she
shouldn&#8217;t let herself grow angry. And yet, she had to grit
her teeth and work very, <i>very</i> hard to keep her hair from
bleeding to a smoldering red. The images sparked something within
her. Something she consistently avoided thinking about.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Hallandren has ruined these
people. Just like it ruined me by dominating my childhood, by
forcing me to honor the opportunity to be taken and raped in the
name of protecting my country.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I hate this city. Hate it so
very much.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They were unseemly
thoughts.&#160; She couldn&#8217;t afford to hate Hallandren. She
had been told that on many occasions. She had trouble lately
remembering why.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She succeeded in keeping her
hatred, and hair, contained. A few moments later, Thame joined them
and led them the rest of the distance. She had been told they would
be meeting in a large park, but Vivenna soon saw that the term
&#8216;park&#8217; had been used loosely. The plot of land was
barren, strewn with garbage, and surrounded by buildings on all
sides.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her group stopped at the edge
of the dead garden and waited as Thame went ahead. People had
gathered in the area as Thame had promised. Most were of the same
type that she had seen earlier. Men wearing dark, ominous colors
and flippant expressions. Youthful street toughs. Women in the garb
of prostitutes. Some older people.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna forced out a smile, but
it felt insincere, even to her. For their benefit, she changed her
hair color to yellow. The color of happiness and excitement. The
people muttered among themselves.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Thame soon returned and waived
her forward.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Wait,&#8221; Vivenna
said.&#160; &#8220;I wanted to talk to the common people before we
meet with the leaders.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Thame shrugged. &#8220;If you
want. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna stepped forward.
&#8220;People of Idris,&#8221; she said. &#8220;I&#8217;ve come to
offer you comfort and hope.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The people continued to talk
among themselves. Very few seemed to pay any attention to her at
all. Vivenna swallowed. &#8220;I know that you&#8217;ve had hard
lives. But, I want to promise you that the king <i>does</i> care
for you and support you. I will find a way to bring you
home.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Home?&#8221; one of the
men said. &#8220;Back to the highlands?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna nodded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Several people snorted at that
comment, and a few trailed away. Vivenna watched them go with
concern.&#160; &#8220;Wait,&#8221; she said. &#8220;Don&#8217;t you
want to hear me? I bring news from your king.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The people ignored her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Most of them just wanted
confirmation that you were who you said, your highness,&#8221;
Thame said quietly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna turned back toward the
groups still talking quietly in the garden. &#8220;Your lives can
get better,&#8221; she promised. &#8220;I will see you cared
for.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Our lives are already
better,&#8221; one of the men said. &#8220;There is nothing for us
in the highlands. I earn twice as much here as I did back
there.&#8221; Others nodded in agreement.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then why even come to
see me?&#8221; she whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I told you,
princess,&#8221; Thame said. &#8220;They&#8217;re patriots--they
believe in being Idrian. City Idrians.&#160; We stick together, we
do. You being here. . .it means something to them, don&#8217;t
worry. They may seem indifferent, but they&#8217;ll do
<i>anything</i> to get back at the Hallandrens.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Austre, Lord of Colors,</i>
she thought, growing even more deeply angered. <i>These people
aren&#8217;t even Idrians any more.</i> Thame called them
&#8216;patriots,&#8217; but all she saw was a group held together
only because they were forced to.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She turned, giving up on her
speech. These people were not interested in hope or comfort. They
only wanted revenge. She could use that, perhaps, but it made her
feel dirty to even think about it. Thame led her and the others
down a pathway beaten into the field of weeds and trash. Near the
back of the garden, they found a wide construction that was
partially a service shack, partially a wooden pavilion.&#160;
Inside, visible through the open doorways on the sides, she could
see the leaders waiting.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;There were three of them, each
with his own compliment of bodyguards. The leaders wore rich,
vibrant T&#8217;Telir colors. Slum lords. Vivenna felt her stomach
twist. All three of the men had at least the First Heightening. One
of them had obtained the Third.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Jewels and Clod took up places
outside the building, guarding Vivenna&#8217;s escape route.
Vivenna walked in and sat in the chair arranged for her. Denth and
Tonk Fah took up protective places behind her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna regarded the slum
lords. All three of them were variations on the same theme. The one
on the left looked the most comfortable in his rich clothing. The
one on the right looked more scraggly. The one in the center seemed
the indulgent type.&#160; He was sloppy--but in a purposeful way,
perhaps because it was a nice accent to his handsome, youthful
face.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The room was still.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m not sure what
to say to you,&#8221; Vivenna finally said. &#8220;I came to find
something that doesn&#8217;t exist. I was hoping that the people
still cared about their heritage.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The sloppy one in the middle
leaned forward. This would probably be Rira, Thame&#8217;s
employer. &#8220;You&#8217;re our princess,&#8221; he said.
&#8220;Daughter of our king. We care about that.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Kind of,&#8221; said the
one in the neat outfit.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Really, princess,&#8221;
Rira said. &#8220;We&#8217;re honored to meet with you. And curious
at your intentions in our city. You&#8217;ve been making quite a
stir.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna regarded them with a
flat expression. Finally, she sighed. &#8220;You all know that war
is coming.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Rira nodded. The more scraggly
man on the right, however, shook his head. &#8220;I&#8217;m not
convinced there will be war. Not yet.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It <i>is</i>
coming,&#8221; Vivenna said sharply. &#8220;I promise you that. My
intentions in this city, therefore, are to make certain that the
war goes as well for Idris as possible.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And what would that
entail?&#8221; the scraggly man asked. &#8220;A Royal on the throne
of Hallandren?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Was that what she wanted?
&#8220;I just want our people to survive.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;A weak middle
ground,&#8221; said the man on the left. &#8220;Wars are fought to
be won, your highness. The Hallandrens have Lifeless. Beat them,
and they&#8217;ll just make more. I think that an Idris military
presence in the city would be an absolute <i>necessity</i> if you
wanted to bring our homeland freedom.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna
frowned.&#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You think to overthrow
the city?&#8221; asked the man on the right. &#8220;If you do, what
do we get out of it?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Wait,&#8221; said the
man on the left. &#8220;Overthrow the city? Are we sure we want to
get involved un <i>that</i> sort of thing again? What of
Vahr&#8217;s failure? We all lost a lot of money in that
venture.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Vahr was from Pahn
Kahl,&#8221; the men on the right said. &#8220;Not one of us at
all. I&#8217;m willing to take another risk if there are real
Royals involved this time.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I didn&#8217;t say
anything about overthrowing the kingdom,&#8221; Vivenna said.
&#8220;I just want to bring the people some hope,&#8221; Vivenna
said. <i>Or, at least, I did. . . .</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Hope?&#8221; asked the
man on the left. &#8220;Who cares about hope? I want promises. Will
titles be handed out? Who gets the trade contracts if Idris
wins?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You have a
sister,&#8221; Rira said. &#8220;A third one, unmarried. Is her
hand bargainable? Royal blood could gain <i>my</i> support for your
war.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna&#8217;s stomach
twisted. &#8220;Gentlemen,&#8221; she said in her diplomat&#8217;s
voice, &#8220;this is not about seeking personal gain. This is
about patriotism.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course, of
course,&#8221; Rira said. &#8220;But patriots should earn rewards.
Right?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;All three looked at her
expectantly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna stood up. &#8220;I will
be going, now.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth, looking surprised, laid
a hand on her shoulder. &#8220;Are you sure?&#8221; he asked.
&#8220;It took quite a bit of effort to set up this
meeting.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I have been willing to
work with thugs and thieves, Denth,&#8221; she said quietly.
&#8220;But seeing them and knowing they&#8217;re my own people is
too hard.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You judge us quickly,
princess,&#8221; Rira said from behind, chuckling.
&#8220;Don&#8217;t tell me that you didn&#8217;t expect
this?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Expecting something is
different from seeing it first hand, Rira. I expected you three. I
didn&#8217;t expect to see what had happened to our
people.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And the Five
Visions?&#8221; Rira asked. &#8220;You sweep in here, judge us
beneath you, then sweep away? That&#8217;s not very Idrian of
you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She turned back toward the men.
The one on the right had already stood and was gathering his
bodyguards to go, grumbling about the &#8216;waste of
time.&#8217;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What do you know of
being Idrian?&#8221; she snapped. &#8220;Where is your obedience of
Austre?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Rira reached beneath his shirt,
pulling out a small white disc, inscribed with his parents
names.&#160; An Austrin charm of obedience. &#8220;My father
<i>carried</i> me down here from the highlands, princess. He died
working the Edgli fields. I&#8217;ve pulled myself up by the pain
of my scraped, bleeding hands. I worked very hard to make things
better for your people. When Vahr spoke of revolution, I gave him
coin to feed his supporters.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You buy Breath,&#8221;
she said.&#160; &#8220;And you make prostitutes of
housewives.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I live,&#8221; he
said.&#160; &#8220;And I make sure that everyone else has enough
food. Will <i>you</i> do better for them?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna frowned. &#8220;I. . .
.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She trailed off as she heard
the screams.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That confused her. Her life
sense jolted her, warning of large groups of people approaching.
She spun as the slum lords cursed, standing. Outside, through the
garden, she saw something terrible. Purple and yellow uniforms on
hulking men with grey faces.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lifeless soldiers. The city
watch.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Peasants scattered, screaming
as the Lifeless tromped into the garden, led by a number of
uniformed and living city guards. Denth cursed, shoving Vivenna to
the side. &#8220;Run!&#8221; he said, whipping his sword free.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tonk Fah grabbed her arm,
towing her out of the building as Denth charged the guards. The
slum lords and their people were in chaos as they fled, though the
city guard were quickly moving to cut off exits.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tonk Fah cursed, pulling
Vivenna into a small alleyway at the back of the garden.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What&#8217;s going
on?&#8221; she asked, heart thumping.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Raid,&#8221; Tonk Fah
said.&#160; &#8220;Shouldn&#8217;t be too dangerous, unless. . .
.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blades sounded, metal clashing
against metal, and the screams grew more desperate. Vivenna glanced
backward.&#160; The men from the slum lords&#8217; groups, feeling
trapped, had engaged the Lifeless.&#160; Vivenna felt a sense of
horror, watching the terrible, grey faced men wade amongst the
swords and daggers, ignoring wounds. The creatures pulled out their
weapons and began to attack. Men yelled, falling, bloody.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth moved to defend the mouth
of Vivenna&#8217;s alleyway. She didn&#8217;t know where Jewels had
gone.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Aw, Colors,&#8221; Tonk
Fah said, shoving her in front of him. &#8220;Fools decided to
resist. Now we&#8217;re in trouble.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But how did they find
us!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Don&#8217;t know,&#8221;
he said.&#160; &#8220;Don&#8217;t care. They might be after you.
They might just be after those slum lords. I hope we never find
out. <i>Keep moving</i>!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna obeyed, rushing down
the dark alleyway, trying to keep from tripping on her long dress.
It proved very impractical to run in, and Tonk Fah kept shooing her
forward, looking back anxiously. She heard grunts and echoing yells
as Denth fought something at the mouth of the alleyway.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna and Tonk Fah burst out
of the alleyway. There, standing in the street waiting, was a group
of five Lifeless. Vivenna lurched to a halt. Tonk Fah cursed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The Lifeless looked as if they
were stone, their expressions eerily grim in the waning light. Tonk
Fah glanced backward, obviously decided that Denth wasn&#8217;t
going to be arriving anytime soon, then resignedly held his hands
up and dropped his sword. &#8220;I can&#8217;t take five on my own,
princess,&#8221; he whispered. &#8220;Not Lifeless. We&#8217;ll
have to let them arrest us.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna slowly held her hands
up as well.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The Lifeless pulled out their
weapons.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Uh. . . .&#8221; Tonk
Fah said. &#8220;We surrender?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The creatures charged.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Run!&#8221; he shouted,
expertly kicking his sword back up into his hand.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna stumbled to the side as
several of the lifeless charged Tonk Fah. She scrambled away as
quickly as she could. Tonk Fah tried to follow, but had to stop to
defend himself. She slowed, glancing back in time to see him ram
his dueling blade through the neck of a Lifeless.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The creature gushed something
that was not blood. Three others got around Tonk Fah, though he did
manage to whip his blade to the side, taking one in the back of the
leg. It fell to the cobbles.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Two ran toward her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna watched them come, mind
numb. Should she stay? Try to help. . . .&#160;&#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Help how?</i> something
screamed within her. That something was visceral and primal.
<i>Run!</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And she did. She dashed away,
overwhelmed with terror, taking the first corner she saw, ducking
into an alleyway. She raced for the other side, but in her haste
she tripped on her skirt.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She hit the cobblestones
roughly, crying out. She heard footsteps behind her, and she yelled
for help, ignoring her bruised elbow as she quickly pulled her
skirt off, leaving only her dressing leggings. She scrambled to her
feet, screaming again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Something darkened the other
end of the alleyway. A hulking figure with grey skin. Vivenna
stopped, then spun. The other two entered the alleyway behind her.
She backed against the wall, feeling suddenly cold. Shocked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Austre, God of Colors,</i>
she thought, trembling. <i>Please. . . .</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The Lifeless advanced on her,
weapons out. She looked down. A bit of rope, frayed but still
useful, sat in the refuse beside her discarded green skirt.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Like everything else, the rope
called to her. As if it <i>felt</i> like it should still live. She
couldn&#8217;t sense the Lifeless bearing down on her, but
ironically she felt as if she could sense the rope. Could imagine
it, twisting around legs, tying the creatures up.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Those Breaths you hold,</i>
Denth had said. <i>They&#8217;re a tool. Almost priceless.
Certainly powerful. . . .</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She glanced back at the
Lifeless, with their inhumanly human eyes. She felt her heart
thumping so hard it felt like someone was pounding on her chest.
She watched them approach.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And saw her death reflected in
their unfeeling eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tears on her face, she fell to
her knees, trembling as she grabbed rope and skirt. She knew the
mechanics. Her tutors had trained her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Come to life,&#8221; she
plead of the rope.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Nothing happened.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She knew the mechanics, but
that obviously wasn&#8217;t enough. She wept, eyes blurry.
&#8220;Please,&#8221; she begged.&#160; &#8220;Please. Save
me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The first Lifeless reached
her--the one who had cut her off at the far end of the alleyway.
She cringed, cowering to the dirty street.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The creature fell to the
ground, jerking. She looked up with shock as someone jumped over
her, then slammed his weapon into one of the other creatures as
they arrived. Vivenna blinked her eyes clear, and only then did she
recognize the newcomer.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Not Denth. Not Tonk Fah. A
creature with skin as grey as that of the men attacking her, which
is why she hadn&#8217;t recognized him at first.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Clod.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He expertly took off the head
of his first opponent, wielding his thick-bladed sword. Something
clear sprayed from the neck of the beheaded creature as it fell
backward, tumbling to the ground. Dead--apparently--like any man
would have been.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Clod blocked an attack from the
remaining Lifeless guard. Behind, in the mouth of the alleyway, two
more appeared. They charged as Clod backed up, firmly planting one
foot on either side of Vivenna, his sword held before him. It
dripped clear liquid.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The remaining lifeless guard
waited for the other two to approach. Vivenna trembled, to
tired--too numb--to flee. She glanced upward, and saw something
almost human in Clod&#8217;s eyes as he raised his sword against
the three. It was the first emotion she&#8217;d seen in any
Lifeless, though she might have mistaken it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Determination.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The three attacked. &#160;She
had assumed--in her ignorance back in Idris--that Lifeless were
like decaying skeletons or corpses. She&#8217;d imagined them
attacking in waves, lacking skill, but having relentless, dark
power.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She&#8217;d been wrong. These
creatures moved with proficiency and coordination, like a human
might. Except, there was no speaking. No grunting. Just silence as
Clod fended off one attack, then rammed his elbow into the face of
a second Lifeless. He moved with a fluidity she had rarely seen,
his skill matching the brief moment of dazzling speed that Denth
had displayed in the restaurant.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Clod whipped his sword around
and took the third Lifeless in the leg. One of the others, however,
rammed his blade through Clod&#8217;s stomach. Something clear
squirted out both sides, spraying Vivenna. Clod didn&#8217;t even
grunt as he brought his weapon around and took off a second
head.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The Lifeless guard died,
falling to the ground and leaving his weapon sticking from
Clod&#8217;s chest.&#160; One of the other guards stumbled away,
leg bleeding clear blood, and then it fell backward to the ground
too. Clod efficiently turned his attention to the last standing
Lifeless, which did not retreat, but took an obviously defensive
stance.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The stance didn&#8217;t work;
Clod took this last one down in a matter of seconds. Then he
efficiently rammed his blade through the neck of a fallen creature,
stopping it from trying to crawl toward Vivenna, a knife in its
hand.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The alleyway fell still. Clod
turned toward her, eyes lacking emotion. Then he began to twitch.
He shook his head, as if trying to clear his vision. An awful lot
of clear liquid was pouring from his chest. He placed one hand
against the wall, then slumped to his knees.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna hesitated, then reached
out a hand toward him. Her hand fell on his arm. The skin was
cold.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A shadow moved on the other
side of the alleyway. She looked up, apprehensive, still in
shock.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Aw, Colors,&#8221; Tonk
Fah said, running forward, outfit wet with clear liquid.
&#8220;Denth! She&#8217;s here!&#8221; He knelt down beside
Vivenna. &#8220;You okay?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She nodded dully, only barely
aware that she was still holding her skirt in one hand. That meant
her legs--all the way up to her thighs and the short dressing
leggings she now wore--were exposed. She couldn&#8217;t find it in
herself to care. Nor did she care that her hair was bleached white.
She just stared at Clod, who knelt before her, head bowed, as if
worshiping at some strange alter. His weapon slipped from his
twitching fingers and clanged to the cobbles. His eyes stared
forward, glassy.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tonk Fah followed her gaze,
looking at Clod. &#8220;Yeah,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Jewels is
<i>not</i> going to be pleased. Come on, we need to get out of
here.&#8221;</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Thirty-Two</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He was always gone when Siri
awoke.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She lay in the deep,
well-stuffed bed, morning light streaming through the window.
Already, the day was growing warm, and even her single sheet was
too hot. She threw it off but remained on the bed, looking up at
the ceiling.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She could tell from the
sunlight that it was nearly noon. She and Susebron tended to stay
up late talking. That was probably a good thing. Some might see
that she was getting up later and later each morning, and think
that it was due to. . .other activities.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She stretched. At first, it had
been strange to communicate with the God King. As the days
progressed, however, it was feeling more and more natural to her.
She found his writing--uncertain, unpracticed letters that
explained such interesting thoughts--to be endearing. If he spoke,
she suspected that his voice would be kindly. He was so tender.
She&#8217;d never have expected that.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She smiled, sinking back into
her pillow, idly wishing for him to still be there when she awoke.
She was happy. That, also, was something she&#8217;d never expected
from Hallandren. She did miss the highlands, and her inability to
leave the Court of Gods annoyed her, particularly considering the
politics.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And yet there were other
things. Marvelous things. The brilliant colors, the performers, the
sheer <i>overwhelming</i> experience of T&#8217;Telir. And there
was the opportunity to speak with Susebron each night. He treated
her differently than anyone ever had before. Her brashness had been
such a shame to her family, but Susebron found it fascinating, even
alluring.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She smiled again, letting
herself dream. However, as she did, real life began to intrude.
Susebron was in danger. Real, serious danger. He refused to believe
that his priests could bear him any sort of malice or threat. That
same innocence which made him so interesting was also a terrible
liability.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But what to do? Nobody else
knew of his predicament. There was only one person who could help
him.&#160; That person, unfortunately, wasn&#8217;t up to the task.
She had ignored her lessons, and had come to her fate wholly
unprepared.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>So what?</i> a part of her
mind whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri stared at the ceiling. She
found it hard to summon her customary shame at having ignored her
lessons. She&#8217;d made a mistake. How much time was she going to
spend moping, annoyed at herself for something done and gone?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>All right,</i> she told
herself. <i>Enough excuses. I might not have prepared as well as I
should, but I&#8217;m here, now, and I need to do
something.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Because nobody else
will.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She climbed out of bed, running
fingers through her long hair. Susebron liked it long--he found it
fascinating, like her serving women did. With them to help her care
for it, the length was worth the trouble. She folded her arms,
wearing only her shift, pacing.&#160; She needed to play their
game. She hated thinking of it that way. &#8220;Game&#8221; implied
small stakes. This was no game. It was the God King&#8217;s
life.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She searched through her
memory, dredging up what scraps she could from her lessons.
Politics was about exchanges. It was about giving what you had--or
what you implied that you had--in order to gain more. It was like
being a merchant. You started with a certain stock, and by the end
of the year, you hoped to have increased that stock. Or maybe even
have changed it into a completely different stock.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Don&#8217;t make too many
waves until you&#8217;re ready to strike,</i> Lightsong had told
her. <i>Don&#8217;t appear too innocent, but don&#8217;t appear too
smart either. Be average.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She stopped beside the bed then
gathered up the bed sheets and towed them over to the smoldering
fire to burn, as was her daily chore.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Exchanges,</i> she thought,
watching the sheets catch fire in the large hearth. <i>What do I
have to trade or exchange? Not much.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It would have to do.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She walked over and pulled open
the door. As usual, a group of serving women waited outside.&#160;
Siri&#8217;s standard ladies moved around her, bringing clothing.
Another group of servants, however, moved to tidy the room. Several
of these wore brown.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;As her servants dressed her,
she watched one of the girls in brown. At a convenient moment, Siri
stepped over, putting a hand on the girl&#8217;s shoulder.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;re from Pahn
Kahl,&#8221; Siri said quietly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The girl nodded, surprised.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I have a message I want
you to give to Bluefingers,&#8221; Siri whispered. &#8220;Tell him
I have vital information he needs to know. I&#8217;d like to trade.
Tell him. . .it could change his plans drastically.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The girl paled, but nodded, and
Siri stepped back to continue dressing. Several of the other
serving women had heard the exchange, but the servants were
supposed to stay out of politics. It was a sacred tenet of the
Hallandren religion that the servants of a god weren&#8217;t to
repeat or betray the things they heard in confidence.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hopefully that would hold true.
If it didn&#8217;t, then she hadn&#8217;t really given that much
away. Now she just had to decide just what &#8216;vital
information&#8217; she had, and why exactly Bluefingers should care
about it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My dear queen!&#8221;
Lightsong said, actually going so far as to embrace Siri as she
stepped into his pavilion at the arena.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri smiled as Lightsong waved
for her to seat herself in one of his couch-like chairs. Siri sat
with care--she was growing to favor the intricate Hallandren gowns,
but moving about in them took quite a bit of skill. As she settled,
Lightsong called for fruit.&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You treat me too
kindly,&#8221; Siri said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Nonsense,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;You&#8217;re my queen! Besides, you remind
me of someone of whom I was very fond.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And who is
that?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I honestly have no
idea,&#8221; Lightsong said, accepting a plate of sliced grapes,
then handing them to Siri. &#8220;I can barely remember her.
Grapes?&#8221;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri raised an eyebrow, but she
knew by now not to encourage him <i>too</i> much. &#8220;Tell
me,&#8221; she asked, using a little wooden spear to eat her grape
slices. &#8220;Why do they call you Lightsong the Bold?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There is an easy answer
to that one, my dear,&#8221; he said, leaning back. &#8220;It is
because of all the gods, only I am bold enough to act like a
complete idiot.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri raised an eyebrow.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My station requires true
courage,&#8221; he continued. &#8220;You see, I am <i>normally</i>
quite a solemn and boring person. At nights my fondest desire is to
sit and count the rocks in various piles beside my bed. Alas, I
cannot. I instead go out courageously each evening, abandoning my
rocks in favor of socializing with the other gods.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why does <i>that</i>
take courage?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He looked at her. &#8220;My
dear. Have you seen how dreadfully annoying the rest of them
are?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri laughed. &#8220;No,
really,&#8221; she said. &#8220;Where <i>did</i> the name come
from?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s a complete
misnomer,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;Obviously you&#8217;re
intelligent enough to see that.&#160; Our names and titles are
assigned randomly by a small monkey who has been fed an exceedingly
large amount of gin.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Now you&#8217;re just
being silly.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Now?&#8221; Lightsong
asked.&#160; &#8220;<i>Now?</i>&#8221; he raised a cup of wine
toward her. &#8220;My dear, I am <i>always</i> silly. You retract
that statement at once!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri just shook her head.
Lightsong, it appeared, was in rare form this afternoon.
<i>Great,</i> she thought. <i>My husband is in danger of being
murdered by unknown forces and my only allies are a scribe
who&#8217;s afraid of me and a God who makes no sense.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It has to do with
death,&#8221; Lightsong finally said as the priests began to file
into the arena floor below for this day&#8217;s round of
arguments.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri looked toward him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;All men die,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;Some, however, die in ways that exemplify a
particular attribute or emotion. They show a bit of something
greater than mankind. That is what is said to bring us
back.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He fell silent.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You died showing great
bravery, then?&#8221; Siri asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Apparently,&#8221; he
said.&#160; &#8220;I don&#8217;t know for certain. Perhaps I
insulted a very large panther. That sounds rather brave,
don&#8217;t you think?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You don&#8217;t know how
you died?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shook his head. &#8220;We
forget,&#8221; he said. &#8220;We awake without memories. I
don&#8217;t even know what my job was.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri smiled. &#8220;I suspect
that you were a negotiator or a salesman of some sort. Something
that required you to talk a lot, but to say very little!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; he said
quietly, seeming unlike himself as he stared out at the priests.
&#8220;Yes, I suspect that was it exactly. . . .&#8221; He shook
his head, then smiled at her. &#8220;Regardless, my dear queen, I
have provided a surprise for you this day!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Do I want to be surprised by
Lightsong?</i> &#160;She glanced about
nervously.&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He laughed. &#8220;No need to
fear,&#8221; he said. &#8220;My surprises rarely cause bodily harm,
and never on even numbered days.&#8221; &#160;He waved his hand,
and an elderly man with an exaggeratedly long white beard
approached.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri frowned.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;This is Hoid,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;Master storyteller. I believe you had some
questions you wished to ask. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri smiled eagerly,
remembering only now her request of Lightsong. She glanced at the
priests below. &#8220;Um, shouldn&#8217;t we be paying attention to
the speeches?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong waved indifferently.
&#8220;Pay attention? Ridiculous! That would be far too responsible
of us. We&#8217;re gods, for the Colors&#8217; sake. Or, well, I
am. You&#8217;re close enough. A god-in-law, one might say. Anyway,
do <i>you</i> really want to listen to a bunch of stuffy priests
talk about sewage disposal?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri grimaced.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I thought not.&#160;
Besides, neither of us have votes pertaining to this issue. So let
us spend our time wisely. We never know when we will run
out!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of time?&#8221; Siri
asked.&#160; &#8220;Aren&#8217;t you immortal?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Not run out of
time,&#8221; Lightsong said, holding up his plate. &#8220;Of
grapes. I <i>hate</i> listening to storytellers without
grapes.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri rolled her eyes, but
continued to eat the grape slices. The storyteller waited
patiently. As she looked closer, she could tell that he
wasn&#8217;t quite as old as he appeared at first glance. The beard
was something of a uniform, and while it didn&#8217;t appear fake,
she suspected that it had been bleached. He was much younger than
he wanted to seem</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Still, she doubted Lightsong
would have settled for anyone other than the absolute best. She
settled back in her chair--which, she noticed, had been crafted for
someone of her size. <i>I should be careful with my questions,</i>
she thought. <i>I can&#8217;t ask directly about the deaths of the
old God Kings; that would be too obvious.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Storyteller,&#8221; she
said.&#160; &#8220;What do you know of Hallandren
history?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Much, my queen,&#8221;
he said, bowing his head.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Tell me of the days
before the division between Idris and Hallandren.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ah,&#8221; the man said,
reaching into a pocket. He pulled out a handful of sand and began
to rub it between his fingers, letting it drop in a soft stream
toward the ground, its grains blown slightly in the wind.
&#8220;Her majesty wishes one of the <i>deep</i> stories, from long
before. A story before time began?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I wish to know the
origins of the Hallandren God Kings.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then we begin in the
distant haze,&#8221; the storyteller said, bringing up another
hand, letting black powdery sand drop from it, mixing with the sand
that fell from his other hand.&#160; As Siri watched, the black
sand turned white, and she cocked her head, smiling at the
display.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The first God King of
Hallandren is ancient,&#8221; Hoid said. &#8220;Ancient, yes. Older
than kingdoms and cities, older than monarchs and religions. Not
older than the mountains, for <i>they</i> were already here. Like
the knuckles of the sleeping giants below, they formed this valley,
where panthers and flowers both make their home.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;People speak of the
valley then, a place before it had a name. The people of Chedesh
were dominant upon the world, though their empire has long since
been taken by the dust.&#160; They sailed the inner sea, coming
from the east, and it was they who first discovered this strange
land. Their writings are sparse, but memory remains.&#160; Perhaps
you can imagine their surprise upon arriving here? A place with
beaches of sand, with fruits aplenty, and with strange, alien
forests?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hoid reached into his robes and
pulled out a handful of something else. He began to drop it before
him--bright green leaves from the fronds of a fern.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Paradise, they called
it,&#8221; Hoid whispered. &#160;&#8220;A paradise hidden between
the mountains, a land with pleasant rains that never grew cold, a
land where succulent food grew spontaneously.&#8221; He threw the
handful of leaves into the air, and in the center of them puffed a
burst of colorful dust. Deep reds and blues mixed in the air,
blowing before him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;A land of color,&#8221;
he said. &#8220;Because of the Tears of Edgli, the flowers of such
brilliant beauty that their dyes would hold fast in any
cloth.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri had never really though
about how Hallandren would look to people who came across the Inner
Sea.&#160; She&#8217;d heard stories from the ramblemen who came
into Idris, and they spoke of distant places. In other lands, one
found parries and steppes, mountains and deserts.&#160; But not
jungles. Hallandren was unique.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The First Returned was
born during this time,&#8221; Hoid said, sprinkling a handful of
silver glitter into the air before him. &#8220;Aboard a ship that
was sailing the coast. Returned can now be found in all parts of
the world, but the first one--the man whom we name only by his
title--was born here. In the waters of this very bay. He reported
the Five Visions. He died a week later.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The men of his ship
founded a kingdom upon these beaches, then called Hanald. Before
they arrived, all that had existed in these jungles was the people
of Pahn Kahl, more a collection of fishing villages than a true
kingdom.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The glitter ran out, and Hoid
began to drop a powdery brown dirt from his other hand as he
reached into another pocket. &#8220;Now, you may wonder why I must
travel back so far. Should I not speak of the Manywar, of the
shattering of kingdoms, of the Five Scholars and of Klad the
Usurper? Those are the events we focus upon, the ones men know the
best. To talk of them only, however, is to ignore the history of
three hundred years that led up to them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Would there have been a
Manywar without knowledge of the Returned? It was a Returned, after
all, who predicted the war and prompted Strifelover to attack the
kingdoms across the mountains.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Strifelover?&#8221; Siri
interrupted.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, your
majesty,&#8221; Hoid said, switching to a black dust.
&#8220;Strifelover. Another name for Klad the Usurper.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That sounds like the
name of a Returned.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hoid nodded.
&#8220;Indeed,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Klad <i>was</i> Returned, as
was Peacegiver, the man who overthrew him and founded Hallandren.
We haven&#8217;t arrived at <i>that</i> part yet. We are still back
in Hanald, the outpost-become-kingdom founded by the men of the
First Returned&#8217;s crew. They were the ones who placed the
First Returned&#8217;s wife as their queen, then used the Tears of
Edgli to create fantastic dyes which sold for untold riches across
the world. This soon became a popular place.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He removed a handful of flower
petals and began to let them fall before him. &#8220;The Tears of
Edgli. The source of Hallandren wealth. Such small things, so easy
to grow here. And yet, this is the only soil where they will live.
In other parts of the world, dyes are very difficult to obtain.
Expensive. Some scholars say that the Manywar was fought over these
little flower petals, that the kingdoms of Kuth and Huth were
destroyed by little drips of color.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The petals fell to the
floor.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But only <i>some</i> of
the scholars say that, storyteller?&#8221; Lightsong said. Siri
turned, almost having forgotten that he was watching. &#8220;What
do the rest say? Why was the Manywar fought in <i>their</i>
minds?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The storyteller fell silent for
a moment. And then he pulled out two handfuls and began to release
dust of a half-dozen different colors. &#8220;Breath, your grace.
Most agree that the Manywar was not <i>only</i> about plants
squeezed dry, but a much greater prize. <i>People</i> squeezed
dry.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You know, perhaps, that
the royal family was growing increasingly interested in the process
by which Breath could be used to bring objects to life. Awakening,
it was being called. It was a fresh and newly-understood art, then.
It still is, in many ways. The workings of the souls of men--their
power to make simple clumps of dirt and flesh become living
people--is something discovered barely four centuries ago. A short
time, by the accounting of gods.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Unlike a court
proceeding,&#8221; Lightsong mumbled, glancing over at the priests
who were still talking about sanitation. &#8220;Those seem to last
an eternity, according to the accounting of gods.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The storyteller didn&#8217;t
break stride at the interruption. &#8220;Breath,&#8221; he said.
&#8220;The years leading up to the Manywar, those were the days of
the Five Scholars and the discovery of new Commands. To some, this
was a time of great enlightenment and learning.&#160; Others call
them the darkest days of men, for it was the day that we best
learned to exploit one another.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He began to drop two handfuls
of dust, one bright yellow, the other black. Siri watched,
amused.&#160; He seemed to be slanting what he said toward her,
careful not to offend her Idris sensibilities. What did she really
know of Breath? She&#8217;d rarely even seen any Awakeners in the
Court. Even when she did, she didn&#8217;t really care.&#160; The
monks had spoken against such things, but, well, she had paid about
as much attention to them as she had her tutors.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;One of the Five Scholars
made a discovery,&#8221; Hoid continued, dropping a handful of
white scraps, made of scrunched up pieces of paper with writing on
them. &#8220;Commands.&#160; Methods. The means by which a Lifeless
could be created from a <i>single breath</i>.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;This, perhaps, seems a
small thing to you. You must look at the past of this kingdom and
its founding. Hallandren came from the servants of a Returned and
was developed by an aggressive, expansive mercantile effort. It
controlled a very lucrative section of land which, through the
discovery and maintenance of the northern passes--mixed with
increasingly good navigation techniques--was becoming a prized
jewel to the outside world.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He paused and his second hand
came up, dropping little bits of metal which fell to the stonework
with a sound not unlike falling rain. &#8220;And so the war
came,&#8221; he said. &#8220;The Five Scholars split, joining
sides. Some kingdoms gained the power of Lifeless when others did
not. Some kingdoms had weapons others could only envy.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;To answer the
god&#8217;s question, my story claims one reason for the Manywar:
the ability to create Lifeless so cheaply. Before the discovery of
the single breath command, Lifeless took fifty Breaths to make.
What good is a extra soldier--even a Lifeless one--if you can only
gain one for every fifty people you already have? However, being
able to create a Lifeless with a single Breath. . .one for one. .
.that will double your troops. And half of them don&#8217;t need to
eat.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The metal stopped falling.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Lifeless are not
stronger than regular men,&#8221; Hoid said. &#8220;They are the
same. They are not more skilled than regular men. They are the
same. However, not having to <i>eat</i> like regular men? That
advantage was enormous.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And the royal
family,&#8221; Siri said. &#8220;They split away because they
didn&#8217;t agree with what Klad was doing. They saw moral
problems with using Lifeless?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The storyteller
hesitated.&#160; &#8220;Why, yes,&#8221; he finally said, smiling
through his beard. &#8220;Yes, they did, your majesty.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She raised an eyebrow.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Psst,&#8221; Lightsong
said, leaning in. &#8220;He&#8217;s lying to you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your grace,&#8221; the
storyteller said, bowing deeply. &#8220;There are diverging
explanations! Why, I am a teller of stories--all
stories.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And what do other
stories say?&#8221; Siri asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;None of them agree, your
majesty,&#8221; Hoid said. &#8220;Your people speak of religious
indignation and treachery by Klad the Usurper. The Pahn Kahl people
tell of the Royal family working too hard to gain powerful Lifeless
and Awakeners, then being surprised when their tools turned against
them. In Hallandren, they tell of the Royal family aligning
themselves with Klad, making him their general and ignoring the
will of the people by seeking war with a bloodlust.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He looked up, and then began to
trail two handfuls of black, burned charcoal. &#8220;But time burns
away behind us, leaving only ash and memory. That memory passes
from mind to mind, then finally to my lips. When all is truth, and
all are lies, does it matter if some say the Royal family sought to
create Lifeless? &#160;Your belief is your own.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Either way, the Returned
took control of Hallandren,&#8221; she said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; Hoid said.
&#8220;And they gave it a new name, transformed from the old one.
And yet, some speak still of the Royals who left, bearing the blood
of the First Returned to their highlands.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri frowned. &#8220;Blood of
the First Returned?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, of course,&#8221;
Hoid said. &#8220;It was his wife, pregnant with his child, who
became the first queen of this land. You are his
descendant.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She sat back.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong turned,
curious.&#160; &#8220;You didn&#8217;t know this?&#8221; he asked,
voice lacking most of its normal flippancy.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shook her head.&#160;
&#8220;If this thing is known to my people, we do not speak of
it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong seemed to find that
interesting. Down below, the priests were moving on to a different
topic--something about security in the city and increasing patrols
in the slums.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She smiled, sensing a covert
method of getting to the questions she <i>really</i> wanted to ask.
&#8220;That means that the God Kings of Hallandren continued on
<i>without</i> the blood of the First Returned.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, your
majesty,&#8221; Hoid said, crumbling clay out into the air before
him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And how many God Kings
have there been?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Five, your
majesty,&#8221; the man said. &#8220;Including his grace, Lord
Susebron, but not including Peacegiver.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Five kings,&#8221; she
said. &#8220;In three hundred years?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, your
majesty,&#8221; Hoid said, bringing out a handful of golden dust,
letting it fall before him. &#8220;The kings of Hallandren were
founded at the conclusion of the Manywar, the first one gaining his
Breath and life from Peacegiver himself. Since that day, each God
King has given birth to a stillborn son who then Returned and took
his place.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri leaned forward.&#160;
&#8220;Wait. How did Peacegiver create a new God King?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ah,&#8221; Hoid said,
switching back to sand with his left hand. &#8220;Now <i>there</i>
is a story lost in time. How indeed? Breath can be passed from one
man to another, but Breath--no matter how much--does not make one a
god. Legends say that Peacegiver died by granting his Breath to his
successor. After all, can a god not give his life away to bless
another?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Not exactly a sign of
mental stability, in my opinion,&#8221; Lightsong said, waving for
some more grapes.&#160; &#8220;You don&#8217;t encourage me to have
confidence in our predecessors, storyteller.&#160; Besides, if a
god gives away his Breath, it doesn&#8217;t turn the recipient into
a god.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I speak only stories,
your grace,&#8221; Hoid said. &#8220;They may be truths, they may
be falsehoods. All I know is that the stories themselves exist and
that I must tell them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>With as much flair as
possible,</i> Siri thought, watching him reach into yet another
pocket and pull free a handful of small bits of grass and earth. He
let bits fall slowly between his fingers.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I speak of foundations,
your grace,&#8221; Hoid said. &#8220;Peacegiver was no ordinary
Returned, for he managed to stop the Lifeless from rampaging.
Indeed, he stole away the armies of the Hallandren--leaving his own
people powerless--in an effort to bring peace. By then, of course,
it was too late for Kuth and Huth. However, the other
kingdoms--Pahn Kahl, Tedradel, Gys, and Hallandren itself--were
brought out of the conflict.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why can we not assume
more from this god of gods who was able to accomplish so much?
Perhaps he <i>did</i> do something special, as the priests claim.
Leave some seed within the God Kings of Hallandren, allowing them
to pass their power from father to son.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Which claim would give them
a heritage of divinity,</i> Siri thought idly slipping a sliced
grape into her mouth. <i>And that would give them a reason to rule.
With the god of gods as their progenitor, they could become God
Kings. And the only one who could threaten them would be. . .
.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>The Royal family of Idris,
who can apparently trace their line back to the First Returned.
Another heritage of divinity, a challenger for right of rule in
Hallandren.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That didn&#8217;t tell her how
the God Kings had died. Nor did it tell her why some gods--such as
the First Returned--could bear children, while others could
not.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They&#8217;re immortal,
right?&#8221; Siri asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hoid nodded, smoothly dropping
the rest of his grass and dirt, moving into a different discussion
by bringing forward a handful of white powder. &#8220;Indeed, your
majesty. Like all Returned, the God Kings do not age. Agelessness
is a gift for all who reach the Fifth Heightening. &#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But why have there been
five God Kings?&#8221; she asked. &#8220;Why did the first one
die?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why do any Returned pass
on, your majesty?&#8221; Hoid asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Because they are
loony,&#8221; Lightsong said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The storyteller smiled.
&#8220;Because they tire. Gods are not like regular men. &#160;They
come back for <i>us</i>, not for themselves, and when they can no
longer endure life, they pass on. God Kings live only as long as it
takes them to produce an heir.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri started.
&#8220;That&#8217;s commonly known?&#8221; she asked, then cringed
slightly at the suspicious comment.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course it is, your
majesty,&#8221; the storyteller said. &#8220;At least, to
storytellers and scholars. Each God King has passed from this world
shortly after his son and heir was born.&#160; It is natural. Once
the heir has arrived, the God King grown restless. Each one has
sought out an opportunity to use up his Breath. And then. . .
.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He threw up a hand, snapping
his fingers, throwing up a little spray of water which puffed to
mist.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And then they pass
on,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Leaving their people blessed and their
heir to rule.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The group fell silent, the mist
evaporating in front of Hoid.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Not exactly the most
charming thing to inform a newlywed wife, storyteller,&#8221;
Lightsong noted. &#8220;That her husband is going to grow bored
with life as soon as she bears him a son?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I seek not to be
charming, your grace,&#8221; Hoid said, bowing. At his feet, the
various dusts, sands, and glitters mixed together in the faint
breeze. &#8220;I only tell stories.&#160; This one is known to
most. I should think that her majesty would like to be aware of it
as well.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Thank you,&#8221; Siri
said quietly. &#8220;It was good of you to speak of it. Tell me,
where did you lean such an. . .interesting method of
storytelling?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hoid looked up, smiling.
&#8220;I learned it many, many years ago from a man who
didn&#8217;t know who he was, your majesty. It was a distant place
where two lands meet and gods have died. But that is
unimportant.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri ascribed the vague words
to Hoid&#8217;s desire to create for himself a mysterious past. Of
far more interest to her was what he&#8217;d said about the God
Kings&#8217; deaths.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>So there is an official
explanation,</i> she thought, stomach twisting. <i>And it&#8217;s
actually a pretty good one. Theologically, it makes sense that the
God Kings would leave once they had someone else to take over for
them.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>But, that doesn&#8217;t
explain how Peacegiver&#8217;s Treasure--that wealth of
Breath--passes from God King to God King when they have no tongues.
And, it doesn&#8217;t explain why a man like Susebron would get
tired of life when he seems so excited by it.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The official story would work
fine for those who didn&#8217;t know the God King. It fell flat for
Siri. &#160;Susebron would not do such a thing. Not now.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Yet. . . Would things change if
she bore him a son? Would Susebron grow tired of her that
easily?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Maybe we should be
<i>hoping</i> for old Susebron to pass, my queen,&#8221; Lightsong
said idly, picking at the grapes. &#8220;You were forced into this
all, I suspect. If Susebron died, you might even be able to go
home. No harm done, people healed, new heir on the throne. Everyone
is either happy or dead.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priests continued to argue
below. Hoid continued to bow, waiting for dismissal.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Happy. . .or dead.</i>&#160;
Her stomach twisted. &#8220;Excuse me,&#8221; she said, rising.
&#8220;I would like to walk about a bit. Thank you for your
storytelling, Hoid.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;With that--entourage in
tow--she quickly left the pavilion, worried that Lightsong might
see her tears.</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Thirty-Three</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Jewels worked quietly, ignoring
Vivenna and pulling another stitch tight. Clod&#8217;s
guts--intestines, stomach, and some other things Vivenna
didn&#8217;t want to identify--lay on the floor beside him,
carefully pulled out and arranged so that they could be stitched.
Jewels was working on the intestines at the moment, sewing with a
thread and needle.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was gruesome. And yet it
didn&#8217;t really affect Vivenna. Not after the shock she&#8217;d
had earlier.&#160; They were in the safe house. Tonk Fah had gone
to scout the regular house to see if Parlin was all right. Denth
was downstairs, fetching something.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna sat on the floor.
She&#8217;d changed to a long dress--her skirt had muddy from its
time in the mud--and sat with legs pulled up against her chest.
Jewels continued to ignore Vivenna, working atop a sheet on the
floor. She was muttering to herself, still angry.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Stupid thing,&#8221;
Jewels said under her breath. &#8220;Can&#8217;t believe we let you
get hurt like this just to protect <i>her</i>.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hurt. Did that even mean
anything to a creature like Clod? He was awake; she could see that
his eyes were open. What was the point of sewing up his insides?
Would they heal? He didn&#8217;t need to eat. Why bother with
intestines? Vivenna shivered, looking away. She felt, in a way, as
if her own insides had been ripped out.&#160; Exposed. Shown for
the world to see.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna closed her eyes. Hours
later, and she was <i>still</i> shaking from the terror of huddling
in that alleyway, thinking that she&#8217;d soon be killed. What
had she proven to be when finally threatened? Modesty had meant
nothing--she&#8217;d pulled of her skirt rather than let it trip
her again. Her hair had meant nothing--she&#8217;d ignored it as
soon as the danger arrived.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her religion, apparently, meant
nothing. Not that she&#8217;d been able to use the Breath--she
hadn&#8217;t even managed to commit blasphemy correctly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m half tempted
to just leave,&#8221; Jewels muttered. &#8220;You and I. Go
away.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Clod began to shuffle, and
Vivenna opened her eyes to see him trying to stand up, even though
his insides were hanging out.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Jewels swore. &#8220;Sit back
down,&#8221; she hissed, barely audible. &#8220;Colors-cursed
thing. Howl of the sun.&#160; Go inactive. Howl of the
sun.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna watched as Clod laid
down then stopped moving. <i>They might obey commands,</i> she
thought. <i>But they aren&#8217;t very smart. It tried to walk out,
obeying Jewels&#8217; perceived Command to &#8216;go
away.&#8217;</i> And what was that nonsense Jewels had said about
the sun?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna heard footsteps on the
stairs leading down to the cellar, and soon the door opened and
Denth appeared. He closed the door then walked over and handed
Jewels something that looked like a large wineskin. The woman took
it and immediately turned back to her work.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth sat down beside
Vivenna.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They say a man
doesn&#8217;t know himself until he faces death for the first
time,&#8221; he said in a conversational tone. &#8220;I don&#8217;t
know about that. It seems to me that the person you are when
you&#8217;re about to die isn&#8217;t as important as the person
you are during the rest of your life. Why should a few moments
matter more than an entire lifetime?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna didn&#8217;t
respond.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Everyone gets scared,
Princess. Even brave men sometimes run their first time they see
battle. In armies, that&#8217;s why there&#8217;s so much training.
The ones who hold aren&#8217;t the courageous ones, they&#8217;re
the well-trained ones. We have instincts like any other
animal.&#160; They take over sometimes. That&#8217;s all
right.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna continued to watch as
Jewels carefully placed the intestines back into Clod&#8217;s
stomach. She took out a small package and removed something that
looked like a strip of meat.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You did well,
actually,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;Kept your wits about you.
Didn&#8217;t freeze. Found the quickest way out. I&#8217;ve
protected some people who will just stand there and die unless you
shake them and force them to run.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I want you to teach me
Awakening,&#8221; Vivenna whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He paused, glancing at her.
&#8220;Do you. . .want to think about that a bit first?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I have,&#8221; she
whispered, arms around knees, head resting against them. &#8220;I
thought I was stronger than I am. I thought I&#8217;d rather die
than use it. That was a lie. In that moment, I would have done
<i>anything</i> to survive.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth smiled.
&#8220;You&#8217;d make a good mercenary.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s wrong,&#8221;
she said, still staring forward. &#8220;But I can&#8217;t claim to
be pure any more. I might as well understand what I have. Use it.
If that damns me, then so be it. At least it will have helped me
survive long enough to destroy the Hallandren.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth raised an eyebrow.
&#8220;You want to <i>destroy</i> them now, eh? No more simple
sabotage and undermining?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shook her head. &#8220;I
want this kingdom overthrown,&#8221; she whispered. &#8220;Just
like the slum lords said.&#160; It can corrupt those poor people.
It can corrupt even me. I hate it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No, Denth,&#8221;
Vivenna said. Her hair bled a deep red, and for once she
didn&#8217;t care. &#8220;I <i>really</i> hate it. I&#8217;ve
always hated this people. They took my childhood. I had to prepare.
Become their queen. Get ready to marry the God King. Everyone said
he was unholy and a heretic. Yet <i>I</i> was supposed to have sex
with him!</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I hate this entire city,
with its colors and its Gods! I hate the fact that it ripped away
my life, then demanded that I leave behind all that I love! I hate
the busy streets, the placating gardens, the commerce, and the
suffocating weather.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I hate their arrogance
most of all. Thinking they could push my father around, force him
into that treaty twenty years ago. They&#8217;ve controlled my
life. Dominated it. <i>Ruined</i> it. And now they have my
sister.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She puffed, teeth gritted.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;ll have your
vengeance,&#8221; Denth whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She looked at him. &#8220;I
want them to hurt, Denth. The attack today wasn&#8217;t about
subduing a rebellious element. The Hallandrens sent those soldiers
in to kill. Kill the poor that <i>they</i> created. We&#8217;re
going to stop them from doing things like that. I don&#8217;t care
what it takes. I&#8217;m tired of being pretty and nice and
ignoring ostentation. I want to <i>do</i> something.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth nodded slowly.&#160;
&#8220;All right. We&#8217;ll change courses, start making our
attacks a little more painful.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Good,&#8221; she said.
She squeezed her eyes shut, feeling frustrated, wishing that she
was strong enough to keep all of these emotions away. &#160;But,
she wasn&#8217;t.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She&#8217;d kept them in too
long. That was the problem.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;This was never about
your sister, was it?&#8221; Denth asked. &#8220;Coming
here?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shook her head, eyes still
shut.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why, then?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I had trained all of my
life,&#8221; she whispered. &#8220;I was the one who would
sacrifice herself. When Siri left, I became nothing. I had to come
and get it back.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But you just said that
you&#8217;ve always hated Hallandren,&#8221; he said, sounding
confused.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I have. And I do.&#160;
That&#8217;s why I had to come.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He was silent for a few
moments. &#8220;Too complicated for a mercenary, I
guess.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She opened her eyes.&#160; She
wasn&#8217;t sure if she understood, either. She&#8217;d always
kept a tight grip on her hatred, only letting it manifest in
distain for Hallandren ways. She confronted it now. Acknowledged
it. Somehow, Hallandren could be loathsome yet transfixing at the
same time. As if. . .she knew that until she came and saw the place
for herself, she wouldn&#8217;t have a real focus--a real
understanding, a real image--of what it was that had destroyed her
life.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Now she understood. If her
Breaths would help, then she would use them. Just like Lemks. Just
like those slum lords. She wasn&#8217;t so high. She never had
been.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She doubted Denth would
understand. Instead, Vivenna nodded toward Jewels. &#8220;What is
she doing?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth turned.&#160;
&#8220;Screwing on a new muscle,&#8221; he said. &#8220;One of the
ones in his side got cut, sheered right through. Muscles
won&#8217;t work right if you just sew them together. She has to
replace the whole thing.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;With screws?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth nodded. &#8220;Right into
the bone. It works all right. Not perfectly, but all right. No
wound can ever be <i>perfectly</i> fixed on a Lifeless, though he
will heal some.&#160; You just sew them up and pump them full of
ichor-alcohol. If you fix them enough times, the body will stop
working right and you&#8217;ll have to spend another Breath to keep
them going. By then, it&#8217;s usually best to buy another
body.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Saved by a monster.&#160;
Perhaps that was what made her so determined to use her Breath. She
should be dead, but Clod had saved her. A Lifeless.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She owed her life to something
that should not exist. She should be dead. Even worse, if she
looked deep within her, she found herself feeling a traitorous pity
for the thing. Even and affection. Considering that, she figured
that she was already damned to the point that using her Breaths
wouldn&#8217;t matter.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He fought well,&#8221;
she whispered. &#8220;Better than the Lifeless that the city guard
was using.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth glanced at Clod.&#160;
&#8220;They&#8217;re not all equal. Most Lifeless, they&#8217;re
just made out of whatever body happens to be around. If you pay
good money, you can get one who was very skillful in
life.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She felt a chill, remembering
just that moment of humanity she&#8217;d seen in Clod&#8217;s life
as he defended her. If an undead monstrosity could be a hero, then
a pious princess could blaspheme.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Or was she still just trying to
justify her actions?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Skill,&#8221; she
whispered. &#8220;They keep it?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth nodded. &#8220;Some
semblance of it, at least. Considering what we paid for this guy,
he&#8217;d better have been quite the soldier. And that&#8217;s why
it&#8217;s worth the money for us to take the time to learn how to
repair him and keep him going, rather than buy a new
one.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>They treat him just like a
thing,</i> Vivenna thought. Just like she should. And yet, more and
more, she thought of Clod as a &#8216;he.&#8217; He had saved her
life. Not Denth, not Tonk Fah. Clod. It seemed to her that they
should show more respect for him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Jewels finished with the
muscles, then sewed the skin closed with a thick string.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Though he&#8217;ll kind
of heal,&#8221; Denth said, &#8220;it&#8217;s best to use something
strong in the sewing, so the wound doesn&#8217;t rip apart
again.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna nodded. &#8220;The. .
.juice.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ichor-alcohol,&#8221;
Denth said. &#8220;Discovered by the Five Scholars. Wonderful
stuff. Keeps a Lifeless going really well.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s what let
the Manywar occur?&#8221; she whispered. &#8220;Getting the mixture
right?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s part of it.
That and the discovery--again by one of the Five Scholars, I forget
which one--of some new Commands. If you really want to be an
Awakener, princess, that&#8217;s what you have to learn. The
Commands.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She nodded. &#8220;Teach
me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;To the side Jewels got out a
small pump and stuck a small hose into a little clasp on
Clod&#8217;s shoulder. She began to pump the Ichor-alcohol, moving
the pump very slowly, probably in order to keep from bursting the
veins.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well,&#8221; Denth said,
&#8220;there are a <i>lot</i> of commands. If you want to bring a
rope to life--like that one you tried to use back in the
alleyway--a good Command is &#8216;hold things.&#8217; Speak it
with a clear voice, willing your Breath to act. If you do it right,
the rope will grab whatever is closest. &#8216;Protect me&#8217; is
another good one, though it can be interpreted in fairly strange
ways if you don&#8217;t imagine exactly what you want.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Imagine?&#8221; Vivenna
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He nodded. &#8220;You have to
form the Command in your head, not just speak it. The Breath you
give up, it&#8217;s part of your life. Your soul, you Idrians say.
When you Awaken something, it becomes part of you. If you&#8217;re
good--and practiced--the things you Awaken will do what you want
them to. They&#8217;re part of you. They understand, just like your
hands understand what you want them to do.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She nodded slowly.&#160;
Outside, a shadow passed the window and Tonk Fah entered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well?&#8221; Denth
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Looks safe,&#8221; he
said, eyeing Clod. &#8220;How&#8217;s the stiff?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Just finished,&#8221;
Jewels said. She leaned down, saying something very soft to the
Lifeless. Clod started moving again, sitting up, looking about.
Vivenna waited as his eyes passed over her, but there didn&#8217;t
seem to be recognition in them. He wore the same dull
expression.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Of course,</i> Vivenna
thought, standing. <i>He&#8217;s Lifeless, after all.</i> Jewels
had said something to make him start working again. Was that the
security phrase Denth had talked about? She realized it was
probably the same one Jewels had used to make him stop moving in
the first place. That odd phrase. . .</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Howl of the Sun.&#160; Vivenna
filed it away, then followed as they left the building.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A short time later, they were
home. Parlin rushed out, asking after their safety. He went to
Jewels first, though she brushed him off. As Vivenna entered the
building, he moved up to her. &#8220;Vivenna? What
happened?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She just shook her head.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There was
fighting,&#8221; he said, following her up the stairs. &#8220;I
heard about it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There was an attack on
the camp we visited,&#8221; Vivenna said tiredly, reaching the top
of the stairs. &#8220;A squad of Lifeless. They started killing
people.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Lord of Colors!&#8221;
Parlin said. &#8220;Is Jewels all right?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna flushed, turning on the
landing, looking down the stairs toward him. &#8220;Why do you ask
about <i>her</i>?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Parlin shrugged. &#8220;I think
she&#8217;s nice.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Should you be saying
things like that?&#8221; Vivenna asked, noticing half-heartedly
that her hair was turning red again. &#8220;Aren&#8217;t you
engaged to <i>me</i>?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He frowned. &#8220;You were
engaged to the God King, Vivenna.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But you know what our
fathers wanted,&#8221; she said, hands on hips.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I did,&#8221; Parlin
said.&#160; &#8220;But, well, when we left Idris, I figured we were
both going to get disinherited.&#160; There&#8217;s really no
reason to keep up the charade.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Charade?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I mean, let&#8217;s be
honest, Vivenna,&#8221; he said, smiling. &#8220;You really
haven&#8217;t ever been that nice to me. I know you think I&#8217;m
stupid; I guess you&#8217;re probably right. But if you really
cared, I figured that you wouldn&#8217;t make me <i>feel</i> stupid
too.&#160; Jewels grumbles at me, but she laughs at my jokes some
times. You&#8217;ve never done that.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But. . . .&#8221;
Vivenna said, finding herself at a slight loss for words.
&#8220;But, why did you follow me down to Hallandren?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He blinked. &#8220;Well, for
Siri, of course. Isn&#8217;t that why we came? To rescue her?
&#8221; He smiled fondly, then shrugged. &#8220;Good night,
Vivenna.&#8221; He trailed down the steps, calling to Jewels to see
if she was hurt.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna watched him go.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>He&#8217;s twice the person
I am,</i> she thought with shame, turning toward her room. <i>But
I&#8217;m just finding it hard to care any more.</i> Everything had
been taken from her. Why not Parlin, too? Her hatred for Hallandren
grew a little more firm as she stepped into her room.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I just need to sleep,</i>
she thought. <i>Maybe after that, I can figure out just what in the
name of the Colors I&#8217;m doing in this city.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;On one thing she remained firm.
She was going to learn how to Awaken. The Vivenna from before--the
one who had a right to stand up tall and pronounce Breath to be
unholy--no longer had a place in T&#8217;Telir. The real Vivenna
hadn&#8217;t come to Hallandren to save her sister. She&#8217;d
come because she couldn&#8217;t stand being unimportant.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She&#8217;d learn. That was her
punishment.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Inside her room, she pushed the
door closed, locking the bolt. Then she walked over to pull the
drapes closed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A figure stood on her balcony,
resting against the railing. He wore several days worth of scrub on
his face and his dark clothing was worn, almost tattered. He
carried a deep black sword.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She jumped, eyes wide.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You,&#8221; he said in
an angry voice, &#8220;are causing a lot of trouble.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She opened her mouth to scream,
but the drapes snapped forward, wrapping around her neck and
mouth.&#160; They squeezed tightly, choking her. They around her
entire body, pinning her arms to her sides.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>No</i>! she thought. <i>I
survive the attack and the Lifeless, and then fall in my own
room?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She struggled, hoping someone
would hear her thrashing and come for her. But nobody did. At
least, not before she fell unconscious.</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Thirty-Four</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong watched the young
queen dart away from his pavilion and felt an odd sense of. .
.guilt. <i>How very odd for me,</i> he thought, taking a sip of
wine. After the grapes, it tasted a little bitter.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Maybe the bitterness was from
something else. He&#8217;d made the comment about the God
King&#8217;s death in his usual flippant way. In his opinion, it
was usually best for people to hear the truth bluntly--and, if
possible, amusingly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He hadn&#8217;t expected such a
reaction from Siri. &#160;What was the God King to her? She&#8217;d
been sent to be his bride, probably against her will. Yet, she
seemed to take the prospect of his death with apparent grief. He
eyed her as she fled.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Such a small, young thing she
was, all dressed up in gold and blue. <i>Young?</i> he thought.
<i>She&#8217;s been alive longer than I have.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He retained some things from
his former life--such as his perception of his age. He didn&#8217;t
feel like he was five. He felt far older. That age should have
taught him to hold his tongue when speaking of making widows out of
young girls. Could the girl actually have an affection for the God
King?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She&#8217;d only been in the
city for a couple of months, and he knew--through rumors--what her
life must be like. Forced to perform her duty as a wife for a man
to whom she could not speak and whom she could not know. A man who
represented all the things that her culture taught were profane.
The only thing he could determine, then, was that she was worried
about what might happen to her if her husband killed himself. A
legitimate worry. The queen would lose most of her notoriety if she
lost her husband.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong nodded to himself,
turning to look back out at the arguing priests. They were done
with sewage and guard patrols and had moved on to other topics.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We <i>must</i> prepare
ourselves for war,&#8221; one of them was saying. &#8220;Recent
events make it clear that we cannot live with the Idrians with any
assurance of peace or security. This conflict will come, whether we
wish it or not.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong sat idly, tapping one
finger against the arm rest of his chair.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>For five years, I&#8217;ve
been irrelevant</i>, he thought. <i>I didn&#8217;t have a vote on
any of the important court councils, I simply held the codes to a
segment of Lifeless.&#160; I&#8217;ve crafted a divine reputation
as the useless one.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The tone below was even more
antagonistic than it had been during previous meetings. That
wasn&#8217;t what worried him. The problem was the one spearheading
the movement for war.&#160; Nanrovah, high priest of Stillmark the
Kind. Normally, Lightsong wouldn&#8217;t have bothered paying
attention. Yet Nanrovah had always been the most outspoken
<i>against</i> the war.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;What had made him change his
mind?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It wasn&#8217;t long before
Blushweaver made her way to the pavilion. By the time she arrived,
Lightsong&#8217;s taste for wine had returned, and he was sipping
thoughtfully. The voices against war from below were soft and
infrequent.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver sat beside him, a
rustle of cloth and a waft of perfume. Lightsong didn&#8217;t look
toward her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;How did you get to
Nanrovah?&#8221; he finally asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I didn&#8217;t,&#8221;
Blushweaver said. &#8220;I don&#8217;t know why he changed his
mind. I wish he hadn&#8217;t done it so quickly--it seems
suspicious and makes people think I manipulated him. Either way,
I&#8217;ll take the support.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You wish for war so
badly?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I wish for our people to
be aware of the threat,&#8221; Blushweaver said. &#8220;You think I
<i>want</i> this to happen? You think I want to send our people to
die and kill?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong looked at her,
judging her sincerity. She had such beautiful eyes. One rarely
noticed that, considering the way that she proffered the rest of
her assets with such over-sensuality. &#8220;No,&#8221; he said.
&#8220;I don&#8217;t think you want a war.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She nodded sharply.&#160; Her
dress was sleek and trim this day, as always, but it was
particularly revealing up top, where her breasts were pressed up
and forward, like flowers demanding attention. Lightsong looked
away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;re boring
today,&#8221; Blushweaver said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m
distracted.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We should be
happy,&#8221; Blushweaver said. &#8220;The priests have almost all
come around. Soon there will be a call for war made to the main
assembly of Gods.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong nodded. The main
assembly of Gods was only called to judge in the most important of
situations. In that case, they all had a vote. If the vote was for
war, the Gods with Lifeless Commands--Gods like Lightsong--would be
called upon to lead and administrate the battle.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;ve changed the
Commands on Hopefinder&#8217;s ten thousand?&#8221; Lightsong
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She nodded.
&#8220;They&#8217;re mine now, as are Mercystar&#8217;s.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Colors,</i> he thought.
<i>Between the two of us, we now control three fourths of the
kingdom&#8217;s armies.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>What in the name of the
Iridescent Tones am I getting myself into?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver settled back in her
chair, eying the smaller one that Siri had vacated. &#8220;I am
annoyed, however, at Allmother.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Because she&#8217;s
prettier than you, or because she&#8217;s smarter?&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver regarded him with a
flat stare.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Just trying to act less
boring, my dear.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Allmother holds the last
group of Lifeless,&#8221; Blushweaver said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;An odd choice,
wouldn&#8217;t you think?&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;I mean, I
make sense--assuming you don&#8217;t know me, of course--since
I&#8217;m supposedly Bold. Hopefinder represents Justice, a nice
mix with soldiers. Even Mercystar, who represents benevolence,
makes sense for one who bears soldiers. But Allmother? Goddess of
matrons and families? Giving her ten thousand Lifeless is enough to
make even me consider my drunk monkey theory.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The one who chooses
Returned names and titles?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Exactly,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;I&#8217;m expanding the theory. I am now
tempted to believe that God--or the universe, or time, or whatever
you think controls all of this--really is just a drunk
monkey.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She leaned over, squeezing her
arms together, seriously threatening to burst her chest out the
front of her dress. &#8220;And, you think <i>my</i> title was
chosen by happenstance? Goddess of honesty and interpersonal
relations. Seems to fit, wouldn&#8217;t you say?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He hesitated. Then he smiled.
&#8220;My dear, did you just try to prove the existence of God
through the use of your cleavage?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She smiled. &#8220;You&#8217;d
be surprised what a good wiggle of the chest can
accomplish.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Hum. I&#8217;d never
considered the theological power of your breasts, my dear. If there
were a church dedicated to them, perhaps you&#8217;d make a theist
out of me. Regardless, are you going to tell me what specifically
Allmother did to annoy you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;She won&#8217;t give me
her Lifeless commands.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Not surprising,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;<i>I</i> hardly trust you, and I&#8217;m
your friend.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We need those security
phrases, Lightsong.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why?&#8221; he
asked.&#160; &#8220;We&#8217;ve got three of the four--we dominate
the armies already.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We can&#8217;t afford in
biting or divisiveness,&#8221; Blushweaver said. &#8220;If her ten
were to turn against our thirty, we&#8217;d win, but we&#8217;d be
left very weak.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He frowned. &#8220;Surely she
wouldn&#8217;t do that.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Surely we&#8217;d rather
be certain.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong sighed.&#160;
&#8220;Very well, then. I&#8217;ll talk to her.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That. . .might not be a
good idea.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He raised an eyebrow.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;She doesn&#8217;t like
you very much.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, I know,&#8221; he
said. &#8220;She one of the few goddesses with good
taste.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She glared at him. &#8220;Do I
need to wiggle my breasts at you again?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No, please. I
don&#8217;t know if I&#8217;d be able to stand the theological
debate that would follow. I&#8217;ll be good.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;All right, then,&#8221;
she said, sitting back, looking down at the priests who were still
arguing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>They sure are taking a long
time on this one,</i> he thought. He glanced toward the other side
of the court arena where Siri had paused, arms resting on the
stonework; it was too tall for her to do comfortably.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Perhaps it wasn&#8217;t
thinking of her husband&#8217;s death that bothered her,</i> he
thought. <i>Maybe it was because the discussion turned to
war.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A war her people couldn&#8217;t
win. That was another good reason why the conflict was becoming
inevitable. As Hoid had implied, when one side had a distinct
advantage, war was the result. Hallandren had been building its
Lifeless armies for centuries, and the size was becoming daunting.
Idris held the passes to the northern kingdoms, through which
Hallandren merchants were forced to pay tariffs in order to sell
their dyes and fruits. Now that the Hallandren crown again had
Royal blood to infuse into the line, war seemed even more
likely.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver huffed beside him,
and he noticed that <i>she</i> had noticed his study of Siri. She
was watching the queen with undisguised dislike.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong immediately changed
the topic. &#8220;Do you know anything about a tunnel complex
beneath the Court of Gods?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver turned back toward
him, shrugging. &#8220;Sure. Some of the palaces have tunnels
beneath them, places for storage and the like.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Have you ever been down
in any of them?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Please. Why would I go
crawling about in storage tunnels? I only know about them because
of my high priestess. When she joined my service, asked me if I
wanted mine connected to the main complex of tunnels. I said I
didn&#8217;t.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Because you didn&#8217;t
want others to have access to your palace?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; she said,
turning back to watching the priests below. &#8220;Because I
didn&#8217;t want to deal with the racket of all that digging. Can
I have some more wine, please?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri watched the proceedings
for quite a long time. She felt a little like Lightsong said he
did. Because she didn&#8217;t have a say about what the court did,
it was frustrating to pay attention. Yet she wanted to know. The
arguments of the priests were, in a way, her only connection to the
outside world.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She was not encouraged by what
she heard. As the time passed, the sun growing close to the horizon
and servants lighting massive torches along the walkway, Siri found
herself feeling more and more daunted. Her husband was probably
either going to be killed or persuaded to kill himself in the
upcoming year. Her homeland, in turn, was about to be invaded by
the very kingdom her husband ruled-- yet he could do nothing to
stop it because he had no way to communicate.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Then there was the guilt that
came from actually <i>enjoying</i> all of the chaos and problems,
if only a tad. Back home, she&#8217;d had to be contrary and
disobedient to find any kind of excitement. Here she only had to
stand and watch, and things would begin to topple against each
other and cause a clatter. Of course, there was far <i>too</i> much
clatter at present, but that didn&#8217;t stop her from thrilling
at her part in it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Silly fool,</i> she told
herself. <i>Everything you love is in danger and you&#8217;re
thinking about how exiting it is?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She needed to find a way to
help Susebron. In doing so, perhaps she could bring him out from
beneath the oppressive control of the priests. Then he might be
able to do something to help her homeland. As she followed that
line of thought, she almost missed a comment from below. It was
spoken by one of the priests most strongly in favor of
attacking.&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Have you not heard of
the Idrian agent who has been causing havoc in the city?&#8221; the
priest asked.&#160; &#8220;The Idrians are preparing for the war!
<i>They</i> know that a conflict is inevitable and so they&#8217;ve
begun to work against us!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri perked up. <i>Idrian
agents in the city?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Bah,&#8221; said another
of the priests. &#8220;The &#8216;infiltrator&#8217; you speak of
is said to be a princess of the Royal family. That&#8217;s
obviously a story for the common people. Why would a princess come
in secret to T&#8217;Telir? Theses stories are ridiculous and
unfounded.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri grimaced. That, at least,
was obviously true. Her sisters were not the types to come and work
as &#8216;Idrian agents.&#8217; She smiled, imagining her
soft-spoken monk of a sister--or even Vivenna in her prim outfits
and stony attitude--coming to T&#8217;Telir in secret. Part of her
had a little trouble believing that Vivenna had been intended to
come be Susebron&#8217;s bride. Vivenna? Having to deal with the
court and the wild costumes?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna&#8217;s stoic coldness
would never have coaxed Susebron out of his imperial mask.
Vivenna&#8217;s quiet disapproval would have alienated her from
gods like Lightsong. Vivenna would have hated wearing the beautiful
dresses and would never have appreciated the colors and variety in
the city.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri might not have been the
best one for the position, but she was slowly coming to realize
that Vivenna hadn&#8217;t been a good choice either.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A group of people was
approaching along the walkway. Siri remained where she was; she was
too distracted by her thoughts to pay much attention.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Are they talking about a
relative of yours?&#8221; a voice asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri started, spinning. Behind
her stood a dark-haired goddess wearing a lavish--and
revealing--gown of green and silver. Like most of the gods, she
stood a good head taller than a normal person, and she looked down
a Siri with a raised eyebrow.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your. . .grace?&#8221;
Siri asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They&#8217;re discussing
the famous hidden princess,&#8221; the goddess said with a wave of
her hand. &#8220;She&#8217;d be a relative of yours, if she really
does have the royal locks.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri shuffled, glancing back at
the priests. &#8220;They must be mistaken. I&#8217;m the only
princess here.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The stories of her are
quite pervasive.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri fell silent.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My Lightsong has taken a
liking to you, princess,&#8221; the goddess said, folding her
arms.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He has been very kind to
me,&#8221; Siri said carefully, trying to give the right
image--that of the person she was, only less threatening. A little
more confused. &#8220;Might I ask which one you are, your
grace?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I am called
Blushweaver,&#8221; the Goddess said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I am pleased to meet
you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No you
aren&#8217;t,&#8221; Blushweaver said. She leaned in, eyes
narrowing. &#8220;I don&#8217;t like what you&#8217;re doing
here.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Excuse me?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver raised a finger.
&#8220;He&#8217;s a better man than any of us, <i>Princess.</i>
Don&#8217;t you go spoiling him and pulling him into your
schemes.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t know what
you mean.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Don&#8217;t give me your
false naivet&#233;,&#8221; Blushweaver said. &#8220;Lightsong is a
good man--one of the last ones we have left in this court. If you
taint him, I will destroy you. Do you understand?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri nodded dumbly, then
Blushweaver spun and moved away, mumbling, &#8220;Find someone
else&#8217;s bed to climb into, you little slut.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri watched her go, shocked.
When she finally shook herself out of the stupor, she flushed, then
fled.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;By the time she got back to the
palace, Siri was quite ready for her bath. She entered the bathing
chamber, letting her serving women undress her. They retreated with
the clothing, then exited to prepare her evening&#8217;s gown. That
left Siri in the hands of a group of lesser attendants, the ones
who&#8217;s job it was to follow her into the massive tub and scrub
her clean.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri relaxed back, sighing as
the women went to work. Another group--standing fully-clothed in
the deep water--pulled her hair straight then cut most of it free,
something she&#8217;d ordered them to do every night.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;For a few moments, Siri floated
and let herself forget the threats to her people and her husband.
She even let herself forget Blushweaver and her snappish
misunderstanding. She just enjoyed the heat and the scents of the
perfumed water.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You wanted to speak with
me, princess?&#8221; a voice asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri started, splashing as she
dunked her body beneath the water. She spun, angrily.
&#8220;Bluefingers,&#8221; she snapped. &#8220;I thought we&#8217;d
cleared this up on the first day!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He stood at he rim of the tub,
fingers blue, typically anxious as he began to pace. &#8220;Oh,
please,&#8221; he said. &#8220;I have daughters twice your age. You
wanted to talk to me. Well, this is where I will talk. Away from
ears.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He nodded to several of the
serving girls, and they began to splash just a bit more, speaking
quietly, creating a low noise. Siri flushed, her short hair a deep
red--though a few cut-off strands that hadn&#8217;t been scooped up
remained a yellow from before.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Haven&#8217;t you gotten
over your shyness yet?&#8221; Bluefingers asked.
&#8220;You&#8217;ve been in Hallandren for months.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri eyed him, but didn&#8217;t
relax her concealing posture, even if she did let the serving women
continue to work on her hair and scrub her back. &#8220;Won&#8217;t
it seem suspicious to have the serving women making so much
noise?&#8221; she asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers waved a hand.
&#8220;They&#8217;re already considered second class servants by
most in the palace.&#8221; She understood what he meant. These
woman, as opposed to her regular servants, wore brown. They were
from Pahn Kahl.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You sent me a message
earlier,&#8221; Bluefingers said. &#8220;What did you mean by my
plans?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri bit her lip, sorting
through the dozens of ideas she had considered, discarding them
all.&#160; What did she know? How could she make Bluefingers
willing to trade?<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>He gave me clues,</i> she
thought. <i>He tried to scare me into not sleeping with the king.
But he had no reason to help me. He barely knew me. He must have
other motives for not wanting an heir to be born.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What happens when a new
God King takes the throne?&#8221; she asked carefully.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He eyed her. &#8220;So,
you&#8217;ve figured that out, then?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Figured out what?</i>&#160;
&#8220;Of course I have,&#8221; she said out loud.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He wrung his hands nervously.
&#8220;Of course, of course. Then you can see why I&#8217;m so
nervous? We worked hard to get me where I am. It isn&#8217;t easy
for a Pahn Kahl man to rise high in the theocracy of Hallandren.
Once I got into place, I worked so hard to provide work for my
people. The serving girls who wash you, they have far better lives
than the Pahn Kahl who work the dye fields. That will all be lost.
We don&#8217;t believe in their Gods. Why should we be treated as
well as people of their own faith?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I still don&#8217;t see
why it has to happen,&#8221; Siri said carefully.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He waved a nervous hand.
&#8220;Of course it doesn&#8217;t <i>have</i> to, but tradition is
tradition. The Hallandren are very lax in every area but religion.
When a new God King is chosen, his servants are replaced. They
won&#8217;t kill us to send us into the afterlife with our
lord--that horrid practice hasn&#8217;t been used since the days
before the Manywar--but we <i>will</i> be dismissed. A new God King
represents a fresh start.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He stopped pacing, looking at
her. She was still naked in the water, awkwardly covering herself
as best she could. &#8220;But,&#8221; he said, &#8220;I guess my
job security is the lesser of our problems.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri snorted.
&#8220;Don&#8217;t tell me you&#8217;re worried about <i>my</i>
safety over your own place in the palace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course not,&#8221; he
said, kneeling down beside the tub, speaking quietly. &#8220;But
the God King&#8217;s life. . .well, that worries me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So,&#8221; Siri said,
&#8220;I haven&#8217;t been able to decide yet. Do the God Kings
give up their lives willingly once they have an heir, or are they
coerced into it?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m not
sure,&#8221; Bluefingers admitted. &#8220;There are stories, spoken
of by my people regarding the last God King&#8217;s death. They say
that the plague he cured. . .well, he wasn&#8217;t even in the city
when the &#8216;curing&#8217; happened. My suspicion is that they
forced him to give up his Breath to his son and that killed
him.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>He doesn&#8217;t know,</i>
Siri thought. <i>He doesn&#8217;t realize that Susebron is a
mute.</i> &#8220;How closely have you served with the God
King?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shrugged. &#8220;As close as
any servant considered unholy. I&#8217;m not allowed to touch him
or speak to him. But, Princess, I&#8217;ve <i>served</i> him all my
life. He&#8217;s not my god, but he&#8217;s something better. I
think these priests. . .they look upon their gods as placeholders.
It doesn&#8217;t really matter to them if one person is holding the
station or another. Me, I&#8217;ve served his majesty for my entire
life. I was hired into the palace as a lad and I remember
Susebron&#8217;s childhood. I cleaned his quarters. He&#8217;s not
my god, but he <i>is</i> my liege. And now these priests are
planning to kill him.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He turned back to his pacing,
wringing his hands. &#8220;But there&#8217;s nothing to be
done.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, there is,&#8221;
she said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He waved a hand. &#8220;I gave
you a warning and you ignored it. I know that you&#8217;ve been
performing your duties as a wife. Perhaps we could find some way of
making certain that no pregnancy of yours comes to term.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri flushed. &#8220;I would
never do such a thing! Austre forbids it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Even to save the life of
the God King? &#160;But. . .of course. What is he to you? Your
captor and imprisoned.&#160; Yes. Perhaps my warnings were
useless.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I <i>do</i> care,
Bluefingers,&#8221; she said. &#8220;And I think we can stop this
before it gets to the point of worrying about an heir. I&#8217;ve
been talking to the God King.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers froze, looking
directly at her. &#8220;What?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;ve been talking
to him,&#8221; Siri admitted. &#8220;He&#8217;s not as harsh as you
might think. I don&#8217;t think this has to end with him dying or
your people losing their places in the palace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers studied her,
watching her to the point that she flushed again, ducking a little
more down into the water.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I see that you&#8217;ve
found yourself a position of power,&#8221; he noted.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Or, at least, one that looks
powerful,</i> she thought ruefully. &#8220;If things turn out as I
want them to, I&#8217;ll make certain your people are cared
for.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And my side of the
bargain?&#8221; he asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;If things don&#8217;t
turn out as I want them to,&#8221; she said, taking a deep breath,
heart fluttering. &#8220;I want you to get Susebron and me out of
the palace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Silence.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Deal,&#8221; he said.
&#8220;But let us make certain it does not come to that. Is the God
King aware of the danger from his own priests?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He is,&#8221; Siri
lied.&#160; &#8220;In fact, he knew about it before I did.
He&#8217;s the one who told me I needed to contact you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He did?&#8221;
Bluefingers asked, frowning slightly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; Siri said.
&#8220;I will be in touch on how to make this turn out well for all
of us. And, until then, I would appreciate it if you&#8217;d let me
get back to my bath.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers nodded slowly, then
retreated from the bathing chamber. Siri, however, found it hard to
still her nerves. She wasn&#8217;t certain if she&#8217;d handled
the exchange well or not. She seemed to have gained something. Now
she just had to figure out how to use it.</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Thirty-Five</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna awoke sore, tired, and
terrified. She tried struggling, but her hands and legs were
tied.&#160; She only succeeded in rolling herself into a less
comfortable position.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She was in a dark room, her
face--gagged--pressing awkwardly against a splintering wood floor.
She still wore her dress, one of the expensive foreign ones that
Denth had complained about. Her hands were tied behind her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Someone was in the room with
her. Someone with a lot of Breath. She could feel it without even
concentrating.&#160; She twisted, rolling on her back in an awkward
motion. She could see a figure silhouetted against a starlit sky,
standing on a balcony a short distance away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He turned toward her, face
shadowed in the unlit room, and she began to squirm with panic.
What was this man planning to do with her? Horrible possibilities
appeared in her mind.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man walked toward her, feet
thumping roughly on the floor. He knelt down, pulling her face up
next to his. &#8220;I&#8217;m still deciding whether or not to kill
you, princess,&#8221; he said. &#8220;If I were you, I&#8217;d
avoid doing anything more to antagonize me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;His voice was deep, thick, and
had an accent she couldn&#8217;t quite place. She froze in his
grip, trembling, hair bleached white. He appeared to be studying
her, eyes reflecting starlight. He dropped her back to the wooden
floor.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She groaned through the gag as
he lit a lantern then pushed closed the balcony doors. He reached
to his belt and removed a large hunting dagger. Vivenna felt a stab
of fear, but he simply walked over and cut the bonds on her
hands.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He tossed the dagger aside, and
it made a thock as it stuck into the wood of the far wall. He
reached for something on the bed. His large, black hilted
sword.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna scrambled back, hands
free, and pulled at her gag, intending to scream. He whipped the
sword toward her, making her freeze.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You will remain
quiet,&#8221; he said sharply.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She huddled back into the
corner. <i>How is this happening to me?</i> she thought. Why
hadn&#8217;t she fled back to Idris long ago? She&#8217;d been
deeply unsettled when Denth had killed the ruffians in the
restaurant. She&#8217;d known, then, that she was dealing with
people and situations that were truly dangerous.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She should have run.&#160;
She&#8217;d been arrogant to think that she could do anything in
this city. This monstrous, overwhelming, terrible city. She was
nothing. Barely a peasant from the countryside to these people. Why
had she been so foolish as to get herself involved in their
politics and schemes? The worst part was, she hadn&#8217;t even
really <i>tried</i> to save Siri. She&#8217;d gotten caught up in
the glory of helping against the war, of being a princess to the
Idrians in the city.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man, Vasher, stepped
forward. He undid the clasp on that deep, black sword, and Vivenna
felt a strange nausea strike her. It seemed that a thin wisp of
black smoke began to rise from the blade.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher approached, backlit by
the lantern, sheathed tip of the sword dragging against the floor
behind him. Then he dropped the sword to the ground in front of
Vivenna.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Pick it up,&#8221; he
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She untensed slightly, looking
up, though she still huddled in the corner. She felt tears on her
cheeks.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Pick up the sword,
Princess.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She had no training with
weapons, but if she could take it from him. . . . She reached for
the sword, but felt her nausea grow far stronger. She groaned, her
arm twitching as it approached the strange black blade.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shied away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;<i>Pick it
up!</i>&#8221; Vasher bellowed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She complied with a gagged cry
of desperation, grabbing the weapon, feeling a terrible sickness
travel like a wave up her arm and into her stomach. She found
herself ripping away her gag with desperate fingers.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Hello,</i> a voice said in
her head. <i>Would you like to kill someone today?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She dropped the horrid weapon
and fell to her knees, retching onto the floor. There wasn&#8217;t
much in her stomach, but she couldn&#8217;t stop herself. When she
was done, she crawled away and huddled down against the wall again,
mouth dripping with bile, feeling too sick to yell for help or even
wipe her face.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She was crying again.&#160;
That seemed the least of her humiliations.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Through teary eyes, she watched
as Vasher stood quietly. Then he grunted--as if in surprise--and
picked up the sword. He clicked the clasp on its sheath, locking
the weapon back inside, then threw a towel onto the stinking
bile.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We are in one of the
slums,&#8221; he said. &#8220;You may scream if you wish, but
nobody will think anything of it. Except me. I&#8217;ll be
annoyed.&#8221; He glanced back at her. &#8220;I warn you.&#160;
I&#8217;m not known for my ability to keep my temper.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna shivered, still feeling
hints of nausea. This man held even more Breath than she did. Yet,
when he&#8217;d kidnapped her, she hadn&#8217;t felt anyone
standing in her room. How had he hidden it?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And what had been that
voice?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They seemed silly things to
distract her, considering her current situation. However, she used
them to keep from thinking about what this man might do to her.
What--</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He was walking toward her
again. He picked up the gag, his expression dark. She finally
screamed, trying to scramble away, and he cursed, putting a foot on
her back and forcing her down against the floor. He tied her hands
again before forcing on the gag. She cried, her voice muffled as he
jerked her backward. He stood, then slung her over his shoulder and
carried her away from the room.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Colors-cursed
slums,&#8221; he muttered. &#8220;Everyone&#8217;s too poor to
afford basements.&#8221; He pushed her into a much smaller room and
tied her hands to the doorknob. He stepped back, looking her over,
obviously unsatisfied.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He knelt beside her, unshaven
face close to hers, breath vile. &#8220;I have work to do,&#8221;
he said. &#8220;Work that <i>you</i> have forced me to do. You will
not run. If you do, I&#8217;ll find you and kill you.
Understand?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She nodded weakly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She caught sight of him
retrieving his sword from the other room, then he quickly rushed
down the stairs. The door below slammed and locked, leaving her
alone.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;An hour or so later, Vivenna
had finished crying herself dry. She sat slumped, hands tied
awkwardly above her. Part of her kept waiting for the others to
find her. Denth, Tonk Fah, Jewels. They were experts. They&#8217;d
be able to save her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;No rescue came. Dazed, drowsy,
and sick though she was, she realized something. This man--this
Vasher--was someone that even Denth had feared. Vasher had killed
one of their friends some months before. He was at least as skilled
as they were.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>How did they all end up
here, then?</i> she thought, her hands rubbed raw. <i>It seems an
awful coincidence.</i> Perhaps Vasher had followed Denth to the
city and was acting out some kind of twisted rivalry by working
against them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>They&#8217;ll find me and
save me.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But she knew that they
wouldn&#8217;t, not if Vasher were as dangerous as they said.
He&#8217;d know how to hide from Denth. If she were going to
escape, she&#8217;d have to do it herself. The concept terrified
her. Strangely, however, memories from her tutors returned to
her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>There are things to do if
you are kidnapped,</i> one had taught. <i>Things that every
princess should know.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;During her time in
T&#8217;Telir, she&#8217;d begin to feel that her lessons were
useless. Now, she was surprised to find herself remembering
sessions that related directly to her situation.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>If a person kidnaps you,</i>
the tutor had taught, <i>your best time to escape is near the
beginning, when you are still strong. They will starve you and beat
you down so that soon you will be too weak to flee. Do not expect
to be rescued, though some people will undoubtedly be working to
help you. Never expect to be exchanged for a ransom. Most
kidnappings end in death.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>The best thing you can do
for your country is try to flee. You may escape. If you
don&#8217;t, the captor may be forced to kill you. That is
preferable to what you will be forced to endure as a captive. Plus,
if you die, the kidnappers will no longer have a hostage.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was a harsh, blunt
lesson--but many of her lessons had been that way. Better to die
than to be held captive and ransomed against Idris. That was the
same lesson that warned her that the Hallandrens might try to use
her against Idris once she was there.&#160; In such a case, she was
told that her father might be forced to order her
assassination.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That was a problem she
didn&#8217;t have to worry about anymore. The kidnapping advice,
however, seemed useful. It frightened her, made her want to cower
back and simply wait, hoping that Vasher would find a reason to let
her go. However, the more she thought, the more she knew that she
had to be strong.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He&#8217;d been extremely harsh
with her--exaggeratedly so. He&#8217;d wanted to frighten her so
that she wouldn&#8217;t try to escape. He&#8217;d cursed not having
a cellar, for that would have been a good place to dump her. When
he returned, he would probably move her to a more secure location.
The tutors were right. The only chance she had to escape was now,
when she was still strong.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her hands were held tightly.
She&#8217;d tried pulling them free several times already. Vasher
knew his knots. She wiggled, rubbing more skin off, and she cringed
in pain. Blood began to drip down her wrist, but even that
slickness wasn&#8217;t enough to get her hands free. She began to
cry again, not in fear, but in pain and frustration.&#160; She
couldn&#8217;t wiggle her way out.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But. . .could she perhaps make
the ropes untie themselves?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I don&#8217;t know how to
use the Breath,</i> she thought. <i>Why didn&#8217;t I let Denth
train me earlier?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her stubborn self-righteousness
seemed even more flagrant to her now. Of course it was better to
use the Breath than it was to be killed--or worse--by Vasher. She
thought she understood Lemks and his desire to gather enough
BioChroma to extend his life. She tried to speak some Commands
through her gag.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That was useless. Even she
understood that the Commands had to be spoken clearly. She began to
wiggle her chin, pushing on the gag with her tongue. It
didn&#8217;t appear to be as tight as her wrist bonds. Plus, it was
wet from her tears and saliva. She worked at it, moving her lips
and her teeth, wiggling the bond free. She was actually surprised
when it finally dropped below her chin, loose.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She licked her lips, working
her sore jaw. <i>Now what?</i> she thought. Her apprehension was
rising. Now she <i>really</i> needed to get free. If Vasher
returned and saw that she&#8217;d managed to work her gag off,
he&#8217;d never leave her with such an opportunity again. He might
punish her for disobeying him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ropes,&#8221; she
said.&#160; &#8220;Untie yourself.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Nothing happened.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She gritted her teeth, trying
to remember the Commands that Denth had told her. <i>Hold
Things</i> and <i>Protect Me</i>. Neither seemed all that useful in
her situation. She certainly didn&#8217;t want the ropes to hold
her wrists more tightly. However, he had said something else.
Something about imagining what you wanted in your mind. She tried
that, picturing the ropes untying themselves.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Untie yourselves,&#8221;
she said clearly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Again, nothing happened.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna leaned her head back in
annoyance. Awakening seemed such a vague art, which was odd,
considering the amount of rules and restrictions it appeared to
have. Or maybe it just seemed vague to her because it was so
complicated.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She closed her eyes. <i>I have
to get this,</i> she thought. <i>I must figure it out. If I
don&#8217;t, I will be killed.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She opened her eyes, focusing
on her bonds. She pictured them untying again, but somehow that
felt wrong. She was like a child, sitting and staring at a leaf,
trying to make it move just by concentrating on it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That wasn&#8217;t the way her
newfound senses worked. They were part of her. So, instead of
concentrating, she relaxed, letting her unconscious mind do the
work. A little like she did when she changed the color of her
hair.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Untie,&#8221; she
Commanded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The Breath flowed from her. It
was like. . .blowing bubbles beneath the water, exhaling a piece of
herself but feeling it flow into something else. Something that
became part of her--a limb she could only slightly control. It was
more of a <i>sense</i> of the rope than an ability to move it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;As the Breath left her, she
could feel the world dull, colors becoming slightly less bold, the
wind a little more difficult to hear, the life of the city a little
more distant. The ropes around her hands jerked, causing her wrists
to burn.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Then the ropes unraveled and
dropped to the ground. Her arms came lose, and she sat, staring at
her wrists, a shocked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Austre, Lord of Colors,</i>
she thought. <i>I did it.</i> She wasn&#8217;t certain whether to
be impressed or ashamed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Either way, she knew she needed
to run. She untied her ankles, then scrambled to her feet, noticing
that a section of the wooden door had been completely drained of
color in a circular pattern around her hands. She paused only
briefly, then grabbed the rope and ran down the stairs. She peeked
out the doorway onto the street, but it was dark, and she could see
little.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Taking a deep breath, she
rushed out into the night.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She walked aimlessly for a
time, trying to put space between herself and Vasher&#8217;s lair.
She knew that she should probably find a place to hide, but she was
afraid. She was distinctive in her fine dress and would be
remembered by all who passed. Her only real hope was to get out of
the slums and into the city proper, where she could find her way
back to Denth and the others.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She carried the rope in her
pocket. She&#8217;d grown so accustomed to having a certain amount
of Breath that missing a fraction, even the small bit contained in
the rope, felt wrong.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Awakeners could recover Breath
they invested into objects; she&#8217;d been tutored on that. She
just didn&#8217;t know the Commands to do it. So she brought the
rope, hoping that Denth would be able to help her recover its
Breath.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She maintained a quick pace,
head down, trying to watch for a discarded cloak or piece of cloth
she could wrap around herself to hide the dress. Fortunately, it
seemed as if the hour were too late, even, for most ruffians. She
did occasionally see shadowed figures on the sides of the road, and
she had trouble keeping her heart stilled as she passed them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>If only the sun were up!</i>
she thought with frustration. It was beginning to grow light with
morning&#8217;s arrival, but it was still dark enough that she had
trouble telling which direction she was going. The slums were
convoluted enough that she felt she were going in circles. She. . .
.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna stopped, frowning. The
street around her looked familiar. Did that mean she&#8217;d passed
it recently? There were no lamps in the slums, but the light of
false dawn was enough. She could have sworn that she recognized the
building in front of her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I</i> do<i>recognize it,</i>
she realized. <i>I recognize the way the broken door hangs, the
pattern of the windows, the faded colors. I stared out a window at
this building, once. That means. . . .</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She turned around.&#160;
Denth&#8217;s safe house--the one they&#8217;d visited after the
attack in the restaurant and the attack in the slums--lay huddled
between two larger buildings across from her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Blessed Austre!</i> She
thought with relief, quickly crossing the street and pushing her
way into the building. The main room was empty, and she hurriedly
opened the door down to the cellar, seeking a place to hide.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She searched around with her
fingers, and sure enough, she found a lantern with flint and steel
beside the stairway. She pulled the door closed and found it more
sturdy than she would have assumed. That felt good, though she
couldn&#8217;t lock it from this side. She left it unlatched and
bent down to light the lantern.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A set of worn, broken stairs
led down into the cellar. Vivenna paused, remembering that Denth
had warned her about the steps. She walked down carefully, feeling
them creak beneath her, and could see why he&#8217;d been worried.
Still, she made it down all right. At the bottom, she wrinkled her
nose at the musty scent. A couple of small game corpses hung from
the wall; someone had been here recently, which was a good
sign.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She rounded the stairs. The
main space of the cellar was built beneath the floor of the upper
room. She would rest there for a few hours, and if Denth
didn&#8217;t arrive, she&#8217;d venture out. Then she--</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She froze, jerking to a halt,
lantern swinging in her hand. Its hesitant light shone on a figure
sitting before her, head bowed, face shadowed. His arms were tied
behind his back and his legs were tied to the legs of the
chair.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Parlin?&#8221; Vivenna
asked with shock, rushing to his side. She quickly set down the
lantern, then froze.&#160; There was blood on the floor.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Parlin!&#8221; she said
louder, urgently lifting his head. His eyes stared forward,
sightless, his face scratched and bloody. Her life sense
couldn&#8217;t feel him. His eyes were dead.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna&#8217;s hand began to
shake. She stumbled back, horrified. &#8220;Oh, colors,&#8221; she
found herself mumbling. &#8220;Colors, colors, colors. . .
.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A hand fell on her shoulder.
She screamed, spinning. A large figure stood in the darkness behind
her, half hidden beneath the stairs.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Hello, princess,&#8221;
Tonk Fah said. He smiled.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna stumbled back, nearly
colliding with Parlin&#8217;s body. She began to gasp, hand at her
chest.&#160; Only then did she notice the bodies on the walls.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Not game animals. What she had
mistaken for a pheasant in the dim light of her lantern now
reflected back green. A dead parrot. A monkey hung beside, body
sliced and cut. The freshest corpse was that of a large lizard. All
had been tortured.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, Austre,&#8221; she
mumbled.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tonk Fah stepped forward,
grabbing for her, and Vivenna finally shocked herself into
motion.&#160; She ducked to the side, escaping his reach. She ran
around the large man, scrambling toward the stairs. She came up
short as she collided with someone&#8217;s chest.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She looked up, blinking.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Do you know what I hate
most about being a mercenary, princess?&#8221; Denth asked quietly,
grabbing her arm. &#8220;Fulfilling the stereotypes. Everyone
assumes that they can&#8217;t trust you. The thing is, they really
can&#8217;t.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We do what we&#8217;re
paid to,&#8221; Tonk Fah said, stepping up behind her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s not exactly
the most enviable work,&#8221; Denth said, holding her tightly.
&#8220;But it the money is good. I was hoping we wouldn&#8217;t
have to do this. Everything was going so nicely. Why did you run
away? What tipped you off?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He pushed her forward with a
careful hand, still holding her arm, as Jewels and Clod moved down
the steps behind him. The stairs groaned beneath the weight.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;ve been lying
to me the entire time,&#8221; she whispered, tears almost unnoticed
on her cheeks, heart thumping as she tried to make sense of the
world. &#8220;Why?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Kidnapping is hard
work,&#8221; Denth said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Terrible
business,&#8221; Tonk Fah added.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s better if
your subject never even knows they&#8217;ve been
kidnapped.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>They always kept an eye on
me. Staying near.</i> &#8220;Lemks. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Didn&#8217;t do what we
needed him to,&#8221; Denth said. &#160;&#8220;Poison was too good
a death for that one. You should have known, princess. With as much
Breath as he held. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>He couldn&#8217;t have died
from sickness,</i> she realized.&#160; <i>Austre!</i> Her mind was
numb. She glanced at Parlin. <i>He&#8217;s dead. Parlin is dead.
They killed him.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Don&#8217;t look at
him,&#8221; Denth said, delicately turning her head away from the
corpse. &#8220;That was an accident. Listen to me, princess.
You&#8217;ll be all right. We won&#8217;t hurt you.&#160; Just tell
me why you ran away. Parlin claimed not to know where you had
gone.&#160; Did you really leave without telling him? Why? What
made you suspect us?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shook her head dumbly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;This is important,
Princess,&#8221; Denth said calmly. &#8220;I need to know. Whom did
you contact? What did you tell the slum lords about me?&#8221; He
began to squeeze her arm tightly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We wouldn&#8217;t want
to have to break anything,&#8221; Tonk Fah said. &#8220;You
Idrians. You break too easily.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;What had once seemed
lighthearted banter to her now seemed terrible and callous. Tonk
Fah loomed in the shadowy lanternlight to her right, Denth a
thinner form in front of her.&#160; She remembered his speed, the
way he&#8217;d slain those bodyguards at the restaurant.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Remembered the way they&#8217;d
destroyed Lemks&#8217;s house. Remembered their flippancy toward
death.&#160; They&#8217;d hidden it all behind a veil of humor.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why?&#8221; she asked
again. &#8220;You seemed like my friends.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We are,&#8221; Denth
said.&#160; &#8220;I like you, Princess.&#8221; He smiled--a
genuine smile, not a dangerous leer, like Tonk Fah. &#8220;If it
means anything, I really do apologize. Parlin wasn&#8217;t supposed
to die--that was an accident. But, well, a job is a job. We do what
we&#8217;re paid to do. I explained this all to you several times,
I seemed to recall. &#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I never really believed.
. . .&#8221; she whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They never do,&#8221;
Tonk Fah said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna blinked. <i>Get away
quickly. While you still have strength.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She&#8217;d escaped once.&#160;
Wasn&#8217;t that enough? Didn&#8217;t she deserve some peace?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Quickly!</i><br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She twisted her arm, slapping
it against the back of Tonk Fah&#8217;s cloak.
&#8220;Grab--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth, however, was to fast. He
yanked her back, snatching her other hand, holding it tightly. Tonk
Fah stood surprised as Vivenna&#8217;s dress bled free of color,
turning grey, and some of her Breath was pulled into his cloak.
Yet, without a Command, that Breath couldn&#8217;t do anything. It
had been wasted, and Vivenna felt the world around her grow more
dull.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth slapped Tonk Fah on the
back of the head.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Hey,&#8221; Tonk Fah
said, rubbing his head.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Pay attention,&#8221;
Denth said. Then he glanced at Vivenna, holding her arm
tightly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blood seeped between his
fingers from her wounded wrist. Denth froze, obviously seeing her
bloodied wrists for the first time; the dark cellar had obscured
them. He looked up, meeting her eyes. &#8220;Aw, hell,&#8221; he
cursed. &#8220;You didn&#8217;t run from us, did you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Huh?&#8221; Tonk Fah
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna was numb.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What happened?&#8221;
Denth asked. &#8220;Was it <i>him</i>?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She didn&#8217;t respond.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth grimaced, then twisted
her arm, causing her to yelp. &#8220;All right. It looks like my
hand has been forced. Let&#8217;s deal with that Breath of yours
first, and then we can have a chat--nicely, like friends--about
what has happened to you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Clod stepped up beside Denth,
grey eyes staring forward, empty as always. Except. . .could she
see something in them? Was she making it up? Her emotions were so
strained lately that she really couldn&#8217;t trust them. Clod
seemed to meet her eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Now,&#8221; Denth said,
face growing harder. &#8220;Repeat after me. My Breath to yours. My
Life become yours.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna looked up at him,
meeting his eyes. &#8220;Howl of the sun,&#8221; she whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth frowned.
&#8220;What?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Attack Denth.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I--&#8221; Denth began.
At that moment, Clod&#8217;s fist hit his face.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The blow threw Denth to the
side into Tonk Fah, who cursed and stumbled. Vivenna wrenched free,
ducking past Clod--nearly tripping on her dress--and threw her
shoulder into the surprised Jewels.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Jewels fell. Vivenna scrambled
up the stairs.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You let her hear the
security phrase?&#8221; Denth bellowed, sounds of struggle coming
from where he was wrestling with Clod.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Jewels gained her feet and
followed after Vivenna. The woman&#8217;s foot broke through a
step, however.&#160; Vivenna tumbled into the room above then threw
the door shut. She reached over, turning the latch.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Won&#8217;t hold them for
long,</i> she thought, feeling helpless. <i>They&#8217;ll keep
coming. Chasing me.&#160; Just like Vasher. God of Colors. What am
I going to do?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She rushed out onto the street,
the dawn light now illuminating the city, and ducked down an
alleyway.&#160; Then she just kept running--this time trying to
pick the smallest, and dirtiest, alleyways she could.</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Thirty-Six</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I will not leave you,</i>
Susebron wrote, sitting on the floor beside the bed, his back
propped up by pillows. <i>I promise.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;How can you be
sure?&#8221; Siri asked from her place on the bed. &#8220;Maybe
once you have an heir, you&#8217;ll grow tired of life, then give
away your Breath.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>First of all,</i> he wrote,
<i>I&#8217;m still not even sure how I would get an heir. &#160;You
refuse to explain it to me, nor will you answer my
questions.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They&#8217;re
embarrassing!&#8221; Siri said, feeling her short hair grow red.
She turned it back yellow in an instant.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Secondly,</i> he wrote, <i>I
cannot give away my Breath, not if what I understand about
BioChroma is true.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>He&#8217;s getting much more
articulate in his writing,</i> Siri thought as she watched him
erase. <i>It&#8217;s such a shame that he&#8217;s been locked his
entire life.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I really don&#8217;t
know that much about it,&#8221; she said. &#8220;BioChroma
isn&#8217;t exactly something we focus on in Idris. I suspect that
half of the things I know are rumors and exaggerations. For
instance, back in Idris, they think you sacrifice people on altars
in the court here--I heard that a dozen times from different
people.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He paused, then continued
writing. <i>We argue something that is silly. I will not change. I
am not going to suddenly decide to kill myself. You do not need to
worry.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She sighed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Siri,</i> he wrote, <i>I
lived for fifty years with no information, no knowledge, barely
able to communicate. Can you really think that I would kill myself
now? Now, when I&#8217;ve discovered how to write? When I&#8217;ve
discovered someone to talk to? When I&#8217;ve discovered
you?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She smiled. &#8220;All
right.&#160; I believe you. But I still think we have to worry
about your priests.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He didn&#8217;t respond,
looking away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Why is he so cursedly loyal
to them?</i> she thought.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Finally, he looked back at her.
<i>Would you grow your hair?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She raised an eyebrow.&#160;
&#8220;And what color am I to make it?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Red,</i> he wrote.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You Hallandrens and your
bright colors,&#8221; she said, shaking her head. &#8220;Do you
realize that my people considered red the most flagrant of all
colors?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He paused. <i>I&#8217;m
sorry,</i> he wrote. <i>I did not mean to offend you. I--</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He broke off as she reached
down and touched his arm. &#8220;No,&#8221; she said. &#8220;Look,
I wasn&#8217;t arguing. I was just being flirtatious. I&#8217;m
sorry.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Flirtatious?</i> he wrote.
<i>My storybook doesn&#8217;t mention this term.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I know,&#8221; Siri
said. &#8220;That book is too full of stories about children
getting eaten by trees and things.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>The stories are metaphors
meant to teach--</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, I know,&#8221; she
said, interrupting him again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>So, what is
flirtatious?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s. . . .&#8221;
<i>Colors!&#160; How do I get myself into these situations?</i>
&#8220;It&#8217;s when a girl acts hesitant--or sometimes silly--in
order to make a man pay more attention to her.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Why would that make a man
pay attention to her?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, like this.&#8221;
She looked at him, leaning forward a bit. &#8220;Do you want me to
grow my hair?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Yes.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Do you <i>really</i>
want me to?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Of course.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well then, if I
must,&#8221; she said, tossing her head and commanding her hair
become a deep auburn red.&#160; It flushed mid-toss, flaring from
yellow to red like ink bleeding into a pool of clear water. Then
she made it grow. The ability was more instinctive than
conscious--like flexing a muscle. In this case, it was a
&#8220;muscle&#8221; she&#8217;d been using a lot lately, since she
tended to cut her hair off in the evenings rather than spending the
time combing it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Even as the hair whipped her
face, it grew in length. She tossed her head, one final time--the
hair making it feel more heavy, her neck warm from the locks which
now tumbled down around her shoulders and down her back, twisting
in light curls.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron looked at her with
wide eyes. She met them, then tried a seductive glance. The result
seemed so ridiculous to her, however, that she just found herself
laughing.&#160; She fell back on the bed, newly-grown hair flaring
around her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron tapped her leg. She
looked over at him, and he stood up, sitting on the side of the bed
so that she could see his tablet as he wrote.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You are very strange,</i> he
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She smiled. &#8220;I know.
I&#8217;m not meant to be a seductress. I can&#8217;t maintain a
straight face.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Seductress,</i> he wrote.
<i>I know that word. It is used in a story when the evil queen
tries to tempt the young prince with something, though I
don&#8217;t know what.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She smiled.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I think she must have been
planning to offer him food.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yeah,&#8221; Siri
said.&#160; &#8220;Good interpretation, there, Seb. Right
on.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He hesitated. <i>She
wasn&#8217;t offering food, was she?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri smiled again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He flushed. <i>I feel like such
an idiot. There is so much that everyone else understands
intrinsically. Yet I have only the stories of a children&#8217;s
book to guide me.&#160; I&#8217;ve read them so often that
it&#8217;s hard to separate myself--and the way I view them--from
the child I was when I first read them.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He began to erase furiously.
She sat up then laid a hand on his arm.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I know that there are things
I&#8217;m missing,</i> he wrote. <i>Things that embarrass you, and
I have guesses. I am not a fool. And yet, I get frustrated. With
flirtation and sarcasm--both things where you apparently act
opposite of what you want--I fear that I will never understand
you.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He stared with frustration at
his board, wiping cloth held in one hand, charcoal in the other.
The fire cracked quietly in the fireplace, throwing waves of
too-bright yellow against his clean-shaven face.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m sorry,&#8221;
she said, scooting closer to him. She wrapped her arms around his
elbow, laying her head against his upper arm. He actually
didn&#8217;t seem that much bigger than her, now that she was used
to it. There had been men back in Idris who had stood some six and
a half feet tall, and Susebron was only a few inches taller than
they.&#160; Plus, because his size was proportional to that of a
regular person, he didn&#8217;t seem spindly or unnatural. &#160;He
was normal, just bigger.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He glanced at her as she rested
her head on his arm and closed her eyes. &#8220;I think you are
doing better than you think. Most people back in my homeland
didn&#8217;t understand me half as well as you do.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He began to write, and she
opened her eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I find that hard to
believe.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s true,&#8221;
she said.&#160; &#8220;They kept telling me to become someone
else.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Who?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My sister,&#8221; she
said with a sigh. &#8220;The woman you were supposed to marry. She
was everything the daughter of a king should be. Controlled, soft
spoken, obedient, learned.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>She sounds boring,</i> he
wrote, smiling.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Vivenna is a wonderful
person,&#8221; Siri said. &#8220;She was always very kind to me.
It&#8217;s just that. . .well, I think even she felt that I should
have been more reserved.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I can&#8217;t understand
that,</i> he wrote. <i>You&#8217;re wonderful. So full of life and
excitement. The priests and servants of the palace, they wear
colors, but there&#8217;s no color inside of them. They just go
about their duties, eyes down, solemn. You&#8217;ve got color on
the inside, so much of it that it bursts out and colors everything
around you.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She smiled. &#8220;That sounds
like BioChroma.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You are more honest than
BioChroma,</i> he wrote. <i>My Breath, it makes things more bright,
but it isn&#8217;t mine. It was given to me. Yours is your
own.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She felt her hair shift from
the deep red into a golden, and she sighed softly with contentment,
pulling herself a little closer to him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>How do you do that?</i> he
wrote.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Do what?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Change your hair.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That one was
unconscious,&#8221; she said. &#8220;It goes yellow if I feel happy
or content.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You&#8217;re happy,
then?</i> he wrote. <i>With me?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>But, when you speak of the
mountains, there is such longing in your voice.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I miss them,&#8221; she
said. &#8220;But if I left here, I&#8217;d miss you too. Sometimes,
you can&#8217;t have everything you want, since the wants
contradict each other.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Their conversation fell silent
for a time, and he set aside his board, hesitantly wrapping his arm
around her and resting back against the bed&#8217;s headboard. She
only half-successfully kept the blushful twinge of red out of her
hair as she realized that they were still sitting on the bed, and
she was snuggling up beside him wearing only her shift.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>But, well,</i> she thought,
<i>we</i> are <i>married, after all.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The only thing that spoiled the
moment was the occasional rumbling of her stomach. After a few
minutes, Susebron reached for his board.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You are hungry?</i> he
wrote.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; she said.
&#8220;My stomach is an anarchist; it likes to growl when
it&#8217;s full.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He paused. <i>Sarcasm?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;A poor attempt,&#8221;
she said. &#8220;It&#8217;s all right--I&#8217;ll
survive.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Did you not eat before you
came to my chambers?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I did,&#8221; she
said.&#160; &#8220;But growing that much hair is draining. It
always leaves me hungry.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>It makes you hungry every
night?</i> He asked, writing quickly. <i>And you didn&#8217;t say
anything?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shrugged.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I will get you food.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No, we can&#8217;t
afford to expose ourselves.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Expose what?</i> he wrote.
<i>I am God King--I eat whenever I wish it. I have sent for it at
night before. This will not be odd.</i> He stood, walking toward
the doorway.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Wait!&#8221; she
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He turned, glancing back at
him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You can&#8217;t go to
the door like that, Susebron,&#8221; she said, keeping her voice
quiet, in case someone was listening. &#8220;You&#8217;re still
fully dressed.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He looked down, then
frowned.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Make your clothing look
disheveled at least,&#8221; she said, quickly hiding his writing
board.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He undid his neck buttons, then
threw off his deep black overrobe, revealing an undergown. Like
everything white near him, it gave off a halo of rainbow colors. He
reached up, mussing his dark hair. He turned back to her, eyes
questioning.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Good enough,&#8221; she
said, pulling the bed sheets up to her neck, covering herself. She
watched curiously as Susebron rapped on the door with his
knuckles.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It immediately opened.&#160;
<i>He&#8217;s too important to open his own door,</i> Siri
thought.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He commanded food by putting a
hand to his stomach, then pointing away. The servants--barely
visible to Siri through the doorway--scuttled away at his order. He
turned as the door closed, walking back to sit beside her on the
bed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Barely a few minutes later,
servants arrived at the room with a dining table and a chair.&#160;
They set the table with large amounts of food--everything from
roasted fish to pickled vegetables and simmering shellfish.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri watched with amazement.
<i>There&#8217;s no way they fixed it that quickly. They simply had
it waiting in the kitchens, should their God happen to grow
hungry.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was wasteful to the point of
extravagance, but it was also wondrous. It bespoke a lifestyle that
her people back in Idris couldn&#8217;t even imagine, one
representative of an uncomfortable balance to the world. Some
people starved; others were so wealthy that they never even
<i>saw</i> most meals fixed for them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The servants set only one chair
at the table. Siri watched as they brought in plate after
plate.&#160; They couldn&#8217;t know what the God King wanted, so
they apparently brought him some of everything. They filled the
table, then retreated as Susebron pointed for them to go.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The scents were almost too much
for Siri in her hungered state. She waited, tense, until the door
closed. Then she threw off the sheets and rushed over. She had
thought the meals prepared for her were extravagant, but they were
nothing compared to this feast. Susebron gestured toward the
chair.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Aren&#8217;t you going
to eat?&#8221; she asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shrugged.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She walked over and took one of
the blankets from the bed, then she spread it on the stone
floor.&#160; &#8220;What looks good to you?&#8221; she said,
approaching the table.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He pointed at the plate of
simmering mussels and several of the breads. She moved these, along
with a dish that didn&#8217;t appear to have any fish in it--a bowl
of exotic fruits tossed in some kind of creamy sauce--to the cloth.
She then sat down and began eating.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron carefully situated
himself on the floor. He managed to look dignified even when
wearing only his undergown. Siri reached over and handed him his
board.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>This is very odd,</i> he
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221; she
asked.&#160; &#8220;Eating on the floor?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He nodded. <i>Dining is such a
production for me. I eat some of what is on a plate, then servants
pull it away, wipe my face, and bring me another one. I never
finish an entire dish, even if I like it.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri snorted. &#8220;I&#8217;m
surprised they don&#8217;t hold the spoon for you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>They did when I was
younger,</i> Susebron wrote, flushing. <i>I eventually got them to
let me do it myself. It&#8217;s hard, when you can&#8217;t speak
with anyone.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I can imagine,&#8221;
Siri said between mouthfuls. She eyed Susebron, who ate with small,
reserved bites. She felt a slight stab of shame at how fast she was
eating, then decided she didn&#8217;t care. She put aside the fruit
dish and fetched several pastries from the table.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron eyed her as she began
to eat one after another. <i>Those are Pahn Kahl tinkfans,</i> he
wrote. <i>You are to take only small bites, making sure to eat a
piece of bread between to wash away the taste. They are a delicacy
and--</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He broke off as Siri picked up
an entire pastry and shoved it into her mouth. She smiled at him,
then continued chewing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;After a moment of looking
stunned, he wrote on his board again. <i>You realize that children
in the stories who gorged themselves usually ended up being thrown
off of cliffs.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri stuffed another crispbread
into her mouth beside the first, dusting her fingers and face with
powdered sugar in the process, her cheeks bulging.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron watched her, then
reached over and took a whole one himself. He inspected it, then
shoved it into his mouth.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri laughed, nearly spitting
out bits of pastry onto the blanket. &#8220;And so my corruption of
the God King continues,&#8221; she said once she could speak.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He smiled. <i>This is very
curious,</i> he wrote, eating another crispbread. Then another.
Then another.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri watched him, raising an
eyebrow. &#8220;One would think that as God King, you would <i>at
least</i> be able to eat sweets whenever you want.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I have many rules that
others need not follow,</i> he wrote as he chewed. <i>The stories
explained this. Much is required of a prince or a king. I would
rather have been born a peasant.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri raised an eyebrow. She had
a feeling that he&#8217;d be surprised if he actually had to
experience things like hunger, poverty, or even discomfort.
However, she left him to his ideas. Who was she to chastise?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You are the one who was
hungry,</i> he wrote. <i>But I am the one doing all the
eating!</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They obviously
don&#8217;t feed you enough,&#8221; Siri said, trying a slice of
bread.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shrugged, continuing to eat.
She watched him, her thoughts turning again to the servants and
Susebron&#8217;s interaction with them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>We can&#8217;t just keep
going on like this,</i> she thought. <i>Playing around at night,
pretending like the world isn&#8217;t going on without us.
We&#8217;re going to get crushed.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Susebron,&#8221; she
said.&#160; &#8220;I think we need to find a way to expose what
your priests have been doing to you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He looked up, then wrote,
<i>What do you mean?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I mean that we should
have you try to talk to the common people,&#8221; she said.
&#8220;Or maybe some of the other Gods. The priests gain all of
their power by associating with you. If you choose to communicate
through someone else, it would overthrow them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Do we need to do
that?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Pretend with me for a
moment that we do,&#8221; she said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Very well,</i> he wrote.
<i>But how, exactly, would I communicate with someone else? I
can&#8217;t exactly stand up and begin shouting.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t
know. Notes, perhaps?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He smiled. <i>There is a story
about that in my book. A princess trapped in a tower who throws
notes out into the ocean waters. The king of the fishes finds
them.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I doubt the king of
fishes cares about our predicament,&#8221; Siri said flatly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Such a creature is only
slightly less fantastic than the possibility of my notes being
found and interpreted correctly. If I threw them out the window,
nobody would believe that the God King had written them.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And if you passed them
to servants?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He frowned. <i>Assuming that
you are right, and that my priests are working against me, then
wouldn&#8217;t it be foolhardy to trust the servants they
employ?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Perhaps. We could try a
Pahn Kahl servant.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>None of them attend me, for
I am the God King,</i> he wrote. <i>Besides, what if we did get a
servant or two on our side? How would that expose the priests?
Nobody would believe a Pahn Kahl servant who contradicted the
priests.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shook her head. &#8220;I
suppose you could try making a scene, running away or causing a
distraction.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>When outside of the palace,
I am constantly attended by a troop of hundreds. Awakeners,
soldiers, guards, priests, and Lifeless warriors. Do you honestly
think I could make any kind of a scene without being rushed away
before I could communicate with anyone?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; she
admitted.&#160; &#8220;But we have to do something! There has to be
a way out of this.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I do not see one.&#160; We
need to work with the priests, not against them. Perhaps they know
more about why the God Kings die. They could tell us--I can speak
to them, using the Artisan&#8217;s Script.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; Siri said.
&#8220;Not yet. Let me think first.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Very well,</i> he wrote,
then tried another pastry.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Susebron. . . .&#8221;
she finally said. &#8220;Would you consider running away with me?
Back to Idris?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He frowned. <i>Perhaps,</i> he
finally wrote. <i>That seems extreme.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What if I could prove
that the priests are trying to kill you? And if I could provide a
way out--someone to smuggle us from the palace and out of the
city?&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The concept obviously bothered
him. <i>If it is the only way,</i> he wrote, <i>then I will go with
you. But I do not believe that we will get to that point.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I hope you&#8217;re
right,&#8221; she said. <i>But if you&#8217;re not,</i> she
thought, <i>then we&#8217;re escaping.&#160; We&#8217;ll take our
chances back with my family, war or no war.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Thirty-Seven</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;In the slums it could seem like
night, even during the full light of day.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna wandered, aimless,
stepping over soiled bits of colorful trash. She knew that she
should find a place to hide and stay there. Yet she wasn&#8217;t
really thinking right any more.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Parlin was dead. He&#8217;d
been her friend since childhood. She&#8217;d convinced him to come
with her on what now seemed the most idiotic of quests. It was her
fault.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth and his team had betrayed
her. No. They had <i>never</i> worked for her. Now that she looked
back, she could see the signs. How conveniently they&#8217;d found
her in the restaurant. How they&#8217;d used her to get at
Lemks&#8217; Breath. How they&#8217;d manipulated her, letting her
feel that she was in control. They&#8217;d just been playing
along.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She&#8217;d been a prisoner and
never known it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The betrayal felt so much the
worse for how she&#8217;d come to trust, even befriend, them. She
should have seen the warnings. Tonk Fah&#8217;s joking brutality.
Denth&#8217;s explanations that mercenaries had no allegiances.
He&#8217;d pointed out that Jewels would work against her own gods.
Compared to that, what was betraying a friend?&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She stumbled down yet another
alleyway, hand on the wall of a brick building beside her. Dirt and
soot stained her fingers. Her hair was a bleached white. It still
hadn&#8217;t recovered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The attack in the slum had been
frightening. Getting captured by Vasher had been terrifying. But
seeing Parlin, tied to that chair, blood coming from his nose, his
cheeks sliced open to reveal the inside of his mouth. . . .</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She would never forget.
Something inside of her seemed broken. Her ability to care. She was
just. Numb.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She reached the end of the
alleyway, the looked up dully. There was a wall front of her. A
dead end. She turned to go back.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You,&#8221; a voice
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna turned, surprised at
the speed her own reaction. Her mind remained numb, but a carnal
part of her was still awake. Capable of defensive instinct.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She stood in a narrow alley
like those she had walked down all day. She&#8217;d stayed to the
slums, figuring that Denth would expect her to run for the open
city. He knew it better than she did. In her addled mind, staying
to the clustered, quiet slum seemed a much better idea.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A man sat on a small stack of
boxes in behind of her, legs swinging over the sides. He was short,
dark haired, and wore typical slum clothing--a mixture of garments
going through various stages of wear.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;ve been
causing quite a stir,&#8221; the man said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She stood quietly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Woman wandering the
slums in a beautiful white dress, eyes dark, hair white and ragged.
If everyone hadn&#8217;t been so paranoid following the raid the
other day, you&#8217;d have been seen to hours ago.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man seemed faintly
familiar. &#8220;You&#8217;re Idrian,&#8221; she whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shrugged.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You know who I
am,&#8221; she said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t know
anything,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Particularly not things that could
get me into trouble.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Please,&#8221; she
said.&#160; &#8220;You have to help me.&#8221; She took a step
forward.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He hopped off his boxes, a
knife flashing in his hand. &#8220;Help you?&#8221; he asked.
&#8220;I saw that look in your eyes when you came to the meeting.
You look down on us. Just like the Hallandren.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shied back.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;A lot of people have
seen you wandering about like a wraith,&#8221; he said. &#8220;But
nobody seems to know exactly where to find you. There&#8217;s quite
a search going in some parts.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Denth,</i> she thought.
<i>It&#8217;s a miracle I&#8217;ve stayed free so long. I need to
do something.&#160; Stop wandering. Find a place to hide.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I figure that someone
will find you eventually,&#8221; the man said. &#8220;So I&#8217;m
going move first.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Please,&#8221; she
whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He raised the knife.&#160;
&#8220;I won&#8217;t turn you in. You deserve at least that much.
Besides, I don&#8217;t want to draw attention to myself. That
dress, though. That will sell for a lot, even scraped up like it
is. I could feed my family for weeks on that cloth.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She hesitated.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Scream and I&#8217;ll
cut you,&#8221; he said quietly. &#8220;It&#8217;s not a threat.
It&#8217;s just an inevitability. The dress, Princess. You&#8217;ll
be better without it. It&#8217;s what is making everyone pay
attention to you.&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She considered using her
Breath. But. . .she hadn&#8217;t been able to make that work very
well yet. So, numb, she reached up, undoing the buttons.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Don&#8217;t drop it to
the ground,&#8221; the man said. &#8220;It&#8217;s dirty enough
already.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She pulled it off, then
shivered, standing only in her under-leggings and her shift.
&#160;He took the dress then opened her pocket pouch. He frowned as
he tossed aside the rope inside of it. &#8220;No money?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shook her head dully.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The leggings.
They&#8217;re silk, right?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her shift came down to her mid
thighs. She stooped down, pulling off the leggings, then handed
them over. He took them, and she saw a glint of greed--or perhaps
something else--in his eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The shift,&#8221; he
said, waving his knife.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; she said
quietly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He took a step forward.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Something snapped inside of
her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No!&#8221; she yelled.
&#8220;No, no, NO! You take your city, your colors and clothing,
and go! Leave me!&#8221; She fell to her knees, crying, and grabbed
handfuls of refuse and mud, rubbing it on the shift.
&#8220;There!&#8221; she screamed. &#8220;You want it! Take it from
me! Sell it like this!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Contrary to his threat, the man
wavered. He looked around, then clutched the valuable cloth to his
chest and dashed away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna knelt. Where had she
found more tears? She curled up, heedless of the trash and mud, and
wept.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It started raining sometime
while she was curled in the mud. It was one of the soft, hazy
Hallandren rainfalls. &#160;The wet drops kissed her cheek; little
streams ran down the sides of the alleyway walls.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She was hungry and exhausted.
But with the falling rain came a bit of lucidity.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She needed to move.&#160; The
thief had been right--the dress had been a hindrance. She felt
naked in the shift, particularly now that it was wet, but she had
seen women in the slums wearing just as little. She needed to go,
become just another waif in the dirt and grime.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She crawled over to a refuse
pile, noticing a bit of a cloth sticking from it. She pulled free a
muddy, stinking shawl. Or maybe it had been a rug. Either way, she
wrapped it around her shoulders, pulling it tight across her chest
to offer some measure of modesty. She tried to make her hair black,
but it refused.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She sat down, too uncaring to
be frustrated. Instead, she simply rubbed mud and dirt into her
hair, changing the pale white into a sickly brown.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>It&#8217;s still too
long,</i> she thought. <i>I&#8217;ll need to do something about
that. It stands out. No beggar would keep hair that long--it would
be difficult to care for.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She began to make her way out
of the alleyway, then paused. The shawl was too bright, now that
she was wearing it. <i>Breath. I&#8217;ll be immediately visible to
anyone with the First Heightening. I can&#8217;t hide in the
slums!</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She still felt the loss of the
Breath she&#8217;d sent into the rope and then the larger amount
she&#8217;d wasted on Tonks&#8217; cloak. Yet she had the greater
portion left. She huddled down by the side of the wall, nearly
losing control again as she considered the situation.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And then she realized
something.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Tonk Fah snuck up on me down
in that cellar. I couldn&#8217;t feel his Breath. Just like I
couldn&#8217;t feel Vasher&#8217;s when he took me in my
rooms.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The answer felt so easy it was
ridiculous. She couldn&#8217;t feel the Breath in the rope
she&#8217;d made. She picked it up, tying it around her ankle. Then
she took the shawl, holding it in front of her. It was such a
pathetic thing, frayed at the edges, only a bit of its original red
color peeking through the grime.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My Breath to
yours,&#8221; she said, speaking the words Denth had tried to get
her to say. They were the same words Lemks had spoken when
he&#8217;d given her his Breath.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It worked on the shawl too. Her
Breath drained from her body, all of it, invested into the shawl.
It was no Command--the shawl wouldn&#8217;t be able do
anything--but her Breath, hopefully, would be safe. She
wouldn&#8217;t give off an aura.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;None at all. She almost fell to
the ground with the shock of losing it all. Where she had once been
able to sense the city around her, now everything became still. It
was as if it had been silenced. The entire city becoming dead.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Or maybe it was Vivenna who had
become dead. A Drab. She stood slowly, shivering in the drizzling
rain, and wiped the water from her eyes. Then she pulled the
shawl--Breaths and all--close and shuffled away.</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Thirty-Eight</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong sat, sweating,
staring down at the floor in front of him. He was breathing
heavily.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar eyed a lesser scribe,
who lowered his pen. Servants clustered around the edges of the bed
chamber. They had, at his request, woken him up unusually early in
the morning. He hadn&#8217;t anticipated the dreams.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your grace?&#8221;
Llarimar asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>It&#8217;s nothing,</i>
Lightsong thought. <i>I dream of war because I&#8217;m thinking
about it. Not because of prophesy. Not because I&#8217;m a
god.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It felt so real. In the dream
he had been a man, on the battlefield, with no weapon. Soldiers had
died around him. Friend after friend. He had known them, each one
close to him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>A war against Idris
wouldn&#8217;t be like that,</i> he thought. <i>It would be fought
by our Lifeless.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He didn&#8217;t want to
acknowledge that his friends during the dream hadn&#8217;t been
wearing bright colors. He hadn&#8217;t been seeing through the eyes
of a Hallandren soldier.&#160; Perhaps that was why it had been
such a slaughter.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>It wouldn&#8217;t be,</i> he
thought. <i>The Idrians are the ones threatening us. They&#8217;re
the rebels who broke off, maintaining a second throne inside of
Hallandren borders. They need to be quelled.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>They deserve it.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What did you see, your
grace?&#8221; Llarimar asked again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong closed his eyes.
There were other images. The recurring ones. The glowing red
panther.&#160; The tempest. A young woman&#8217;s face, being
absorbed by darkness. Eaten alive.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I saw
Blushweaver,&#8221; he said, speaking only of the very last part of
the dreams. &#8220;Her face red and flushed. I saw you, and you
were sleeping. And I saw the God King.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The God King?&#8221;
Llarimar asked, sounding excited.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong nodded. &#8220;He was
crying.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The scribe wrote the images
down. Llarimar, for once, didn&#8217;t prompt further. Lightsong
stood, forcing the images out of his mind. Yet he couldn&#8217;t
ignore that his body felt weak. It was Feast Day, and he would have
to take in a Breath or he would die.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m going to need
some urns,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;Two dozen of them, one for
each of the Gods, painted after their colors.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar gave the order without
even asking why.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;ll also need
some pebbles,&#8221; Lightsong said as the servants dressed him.
&#8220;Lots of them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar nodded. Once Lightsong
was dressed, he turned to leave the room. &#160;Off once again to
feed on the soul of a child.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong threw a pebble into
one of the urns in front of him. It made a slight ringing
sound.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well done, your
grace,&#8221; Llarimar praised, standing beside Lightsong&#8217;s
chair.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Nothing to
it,&#8221; Lightsong said, tossing another pebble. It fell short of
the intended urn, and a servant rushed forward, plucking it off the
ground and depositing it in the proper container.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I appear to be a
natural,&#8221; Lightsong noted. He felt much better, having been
given his Breath.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Indeed, your
grace,&#8221; Llarimar said. &#8220;I believe that her grace, the
Goddess Blushweaver is approaching.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Good,&#8221; Lightsong
said, throwing another pebble. He hit this time. Of course, the
urns were only a few feet from his seat. &#8220;I can show off my
pebble-throwing skills.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He sat on the green of the
courtyard, a cool breeze blowing, his pavilion set up just inside
the Court&#8217;s gates. He could see the blocking wall, the one
that kept him from looking out at the city proper. With the wall in
the way, it was a rather depressing sight.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>If they&#8217;re going to
lock us in here,</i> he thought, <i>they could at least give us the
courtesy of a decent view out.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What in the name of the
Iridescent tones, are you doing?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong didn&#8217;t need to
look to know that Blushweaver was standing with hands on hips
beside him.&#160; He threw another pebble.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You know,&#8221; he
said, &#8220;it&#8217;s always struck me as strange. When we say
oaths like that, we use the colors. Why not use our own names? We
are, presumably, gods.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Most Gods don&#8217;t
like their names being used as an oath,&#8221; Blushweaver said,
sitting beside him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then they are far to
pompous for my taste,&#8221; Lightsong said, tossing a pebble. It
missed, and a servant deposited it. &#8220;I, personally, should
find it very flattering to have my name used as an oath. Lightsong
the Brave! Or, by Lightsong the Brave! I suppose that&#8217;s a bit
of a mouthful. Perhaps we could shorten it to simple
Lightsong!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I swear,&#8221; she
said.&#160; &#8220;You are getting stranger by the day.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No, actually,&#8221; he
said. &#8220;You <i>didn&#8217;t</i> swear in that particular
statement. Unless you think we should simply swear using the
familiar pronoun. <i>You</i>! So, your line at this point is
&#8216;What in the name of You are you doing?&#8217;&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She leaned back, huffing
quietly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He eyed her. &#8220;I certainly
don&#8217;t deserve that yet. I&#8217;ve barely gotten started.
Something else must be bothering you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Allmother,&#8221; she
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Still won&#8217;t give
you the Commands?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Refuses to even speak
with me now.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong threw a pebble into
one of the urns. &#8220;Ah, if only she knew the utter frustration
she was missing by refusing your acquaintance.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m not that
frustrating!&#8221; Blushweaver said. &#8220;I&#8217;ve actually
been rather charming with her.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then that is your
problem, I surmise,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;We&#8217;re gods,
my dear, and we quickly grow tired of our immortal existences.
Surely we seek for extreme ranges in emotion--good or bad, it
doesn&#8217;t matter. In a way, it&#8217;s the <i>absolute
value</i> of emotion that is important, rather than the positive or
negative nature of that emotion.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver paused. So did
Lightsong.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Lightsong, dear,&#8221;
she said. &#8220;What in the name of You did that mean?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m not exactly
sure,&#8221; he said. &#8220;It just kind of came out. I can
visualize what it means in my head, though. With
numbers.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Are. . .you all
right?&#8221; she asked, sounding genuinely concerned.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Images of warfare flashed in
his mind. His best friend, a man he didn&#8217;t know, dying with a
sword through the chest. &#8220;I&#8217;m not sure,&#8221; he said.
&#8220;Things have been rather different for me lately.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She sat quietly for a moment.
&#8220;You want to go back to my palace and frolic? That always
makes me feel better.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He tossed a pebble, smiling.
&#8220;You, my dear, are incorrigible.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m the Goddess of
Lust, for the Your sake,&#8221; she said. &#8220;I&#8217;ve got to
fill the role.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Last I checked,&#8221;
he said. &#8220;You were goddess of Honesty.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Honesty and honest
emotions, my dear,&#8221; she said sweetly. &#8220;And let me tell
you, lust is one of the most honest of all emotions. Now, what
<i>are</i> you doing with those silly pebbles?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Counting,&#8221; he
said.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Counting your
insanities?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That,&#8221; Lightsong
said, tossing another pebble, &#8220;and counting the number of
priests who come through the gates wearing the colors of each God
or Goddess.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver frowned.&#160; It
was mid-day, and the gates were fairly busy with the comings and
goings of servants and performers. There were only occasionally
priests or priestesses, however, since they would have been
required to come in early to attend their gods.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Each time a priest of a
particularly god enters,&#8221; Lightsong said, &#8220;I toss a
pebble into the urn representing that god.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver watched him
toss--and miss--with another pebble. As he&#8217;d instructed, the
servants picked the pebble up and put it in the proper urn. Violet
and silver. To the side, one of Hopefinder&#8217;s priestesses
rushed across the green toward her god&#8217;s palace.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m
confused,&#8221; Blushweaver finally said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s easy,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;You see someone wearing purple, you throw a
pebble in the urn of the same color.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, dear,&#8221; she
said.&#160; &#8220;But <i>why</i>?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;To keep track of how
many priests of each god enter the Court, of course,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;They&#8217;ve slowed to nearly a trickle.
Scoot, would you mind counting?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar bowed then gathered
several servants and scribes, ordering them to empty the urns and
count the contents of each one.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My dear
Lightsong,&#8221; Blushweaver said. &#8220;I <i>do</i> apologize if
I&#8217;ve been ignoring you lately.&#160; Allmother has been
rudely unresponsive to my suggestions. If my lack of attention has
caused your fragile mind to snap. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My mind is quite
unsnapped, thank you,&#8221; Lightsong said, sitting up, watching
the servants count.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then, you must be so
very bored,&#8221; Blushweaver continued. &#8220;Perhaps we can
come up with something to entertain you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m well
entertained.&#8221; He smiled even before the counting results were
in. Mercystar had one of the smallest piles.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Lightsong?&#8221;
Blushweaver asked. Nearly all of her playful attitude was gone.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I ordered my priests in
early today,&#8221; Lightsong said, glancing at her. &#8220;And to
set up position here, in front of the gates, before the sun even
rose. We&#8217;ve been counting priests for some six hours
now.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar walked over, handing
Lightsong a list of the gods and the number of priests who had
entered wearing their colors. Lightsong scanned it, nodding to
himself.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Some of the Gods have
had over a hundred priests report for service, yet a couple of them
have had barely a dozen. Mercystar is one of those.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So?&#8221; Blushweaver
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So,&#8221; Lightsong
said.&#160; &#8220;I&#8217;m going to send my servants to watch and
count at Mercystar&#8217;s palace, keeping track of the number of
priests who are there. I already suspect that I know what
they&#8217;ll find. Mercystar doesn&#8217;t have fewer priests than
the rest of us. They&#8217;re just getting into the Court by a
different route.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver paused.&#160;
&#8220;The tunnels,&#8221; she finally said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong nodded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver leaned back,
sighing. &#8220;Well at least you&#8217;re not insane or bored.
You&#8217;re just obsessed.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Something&#8217;s going
on with those tunnels, Blushweaver. And it relates to the servant
who was murdered.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Lightsong, we have
<i>much</i> bigger problems to worry about!&#8221; Blushweaver
shook her head, holding her forehead. &#8220;I can&#8217;t believe
that you&#8217;re still bothering with this. Honestly!&#160; The
kingdom is about to go to war--for the first time, your position in
the Court is important--and you&#8217;re worrying about how priests
are getting into the Court?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong didn&#8217;t respond
immediately. &#8220;Here,&#8221; he finally said, &#8220;let me
prove my point to you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He reached over to the side of
his couch and picked a small box up off the ground. He held it up,
showing it to Blushweaver.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;A box,&#8221; she said
flatly. &#8220;What a convincing argument you make.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He pulled the top off of the
box, leaving a small grey squirrel sitting in his hand. It stood
perfectly still, staring forward, fur blowing in the breeze.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;A Lifeless
rodent,&#8221; Blushweaver said. &#8220;That&#8217;s <i>much</i>
better. I feel myself being swayed already.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The person who broke
into Mercystar&#8217;s palace used this as a distraction,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;Do you know anything about Breaking
Lifeless, my dear?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shrugged.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I didn&#8217;t
either,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;Not until I required my
priests to break this one.&#160; Apparently, it requires
<i>weeks</i> to take control of a Lifeless for which you do not
have the right security phrases. I&#8217;m not even sure how the
process goes--has something to with Breath and torture,
apparently.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Torture?&#8221; she
said.&#160; &#8220;Lifeless can&#8217;t feel.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong shrugged.&#160;
&#8220;Anyway, my servants broke this one for me. The stronger and
skilled the Awakener who created the Lifeless, the more difficult
it is to break his Lifeless.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s why we need
to get the Commands from Allmother,&#8221; Blushweaver said.
&#8220;If something were to happen to her, her ten thousand would
become useless to us. It would take years to break that many
Lifeless!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The God King and some of
her priestess have the codes as well,&#8221; Lightsong said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh,&#8221; Blushweaver
said, &#8220;and you think <i>he</i> is going to just give them
over to us? Assuming we&#8217;re even allowed to talk to
him?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Just pointing out that a
single assassination couldn&#8217;t ruin our entire army,&#8221;
Lightsong said, holding up the squirrel. &#8220;That&#8217;s not
the point. The point is that whomever made this squirrel held quite
a bit of Breath and knew what he was doing. The creature&#8217;s
blood has been replaced with ichor-alcohol. The sutures are
prefect. The Commands controlling the thing were extremely strong.
It&#8217;s a marvelous piece of art.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And?&#8221; she
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And he released it in
Mercystar&#8217;s palace,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;Creating a
distraction so that he could sneak into those tunnels. Someone else
followed the intruder, and this second person killed a man to keep
him from revealing what he&#8217;d seen. Whatever is in those
tunnels--wherever they lead--it&#8217;s important enough to waste
Breath on.&#160; Important enough to kill for.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver shook her head.
&#8220;I still can&#8217;t believe you are even worrying about
this.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You said you knew about
the tunnels,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;I had Llarimar ask
around, and others know of them too. They&#8217;re used for storage
beneath the palaces, like you said. Different gods have ordered
them constructed at various times during the history of the
Court.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But,&#8221; he
continued, excited. &#8220;They would also be the perfect place to
set up a clandestine operation! The Court is outside the
jurisdiction of the regular city guards.&#160; Each palace is like
a little, autonomous country! Expand a few of those cellars so that
their tunnels connect with others, dig them out of the Court so
that you can come and go secretly. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Lightsong,&#8221;
Blushweaver said. &#8220;If something <i>that</i> secret were going
on, then why would the priests use those tunnels to come into the
Court? Wouldn&#8217;t that be a little suspicious? I mean, if you
noticed it, how hard could it be to discover?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong paused, then flushed
slightly. &#8220;Of course,&#8221; he said. &#8220;I got so wrapped
up in pretending to be meaningful that I forgot myself! Thank you
so much for reminding me that I am an idiot.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Lightsong, I
didn&#8217;t mean--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No, it&#8217;s quite all
right,&#8221; he said, standing. &#8220;Why bother? I need to
remember who I am. Lightsong, self-hating god. The most useless
person ever granted immortality. Just answer one question for
me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver paused.&#160;
&#8220;What question?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why?&#8221; he asked,
looking at her. &#8220;<i>Why</i> do I hate being a god? Why do I
act so frivolous? Why do I undermine my own authority.
Why?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I. . .always assumed it
was because you liked being pithy,&#8221; she said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; he
said.&#160; &#8220;Blushweaver, I was <i>like this from the first
day.</i> The very day I awoke, I refused to believe I was a god.
Refused to accept my place in this pantheon and this Court.
I&#8217;ve acted accordingly ever since. And, if I might say,
I&#8217;ve gotten quite a bit more clever as the years have passed.
That is beside the point. The thing I must focus on--the important
point here--is <i>why</i>.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t
know,&#8221; she confessed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t
either,&#8221; he said. &#8220;But whomever I was before,
he&#8217;s trying to get out. That man I was before I died, he
keeps whispering for me to dig at this mystery. Keeps warning me
that I&#8217;m no god. Keeps prompting me to deal with this all in
a frivolous way.&#8221; He shook his head. &#8220;I don&#8217;t
know who I was--nobody will tell me. But I&#8217;m beginning to
have suspicions. I was a person who couldn&#8217;t simply sit and
let something unexplained slide away into the fog of memory. I was
a man who hated secrets. And I&#8217;m only just beginning to
understand how many secrets there are in this Court.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver looked taken
aback.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Now,&#8221; he said,
walking away from the pavilion, his servants hurrying to catch up,
&#8220;if you will excuse me, I have some business to be
about.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What business?&#8221;
Blushweaver demanded, rising.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He glanced back. &#8220;To see
Allmother. There are some Lifeless Commands that need to be dealt
with.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Thirty-Nine</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A week living in the gutters
served to drastically change Vivenna&#8217;s perspective on
life.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She sold her hair on the second
day, getting a depressingly small amount. The food that she&#8217;d
bought with it hadn&#8217;t even filled her stomach. She
didn&#8217;t have the strength to regrow the locks. The haircut
didn&#8217;t even have the dignity of being shaved--it was a ragged
job of hackwork, and would have still been a pale white, save for
the fact that it was matted and blackened with dirt and
soot.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She sat on the side of the
street, holding out her hand to the passing crowds, keeping her
eyes down.&#160; No offerings came. She wasn&#8217;t certain how
the other beggars did it; their meager earnings seemed an amazing
treasure. They knew so much she didn&#8217;t--where to sit, how to
plead. Passers learned to avoid beggars, even with their eyes. The
successful beggars, then, were those who managed to draw
attention.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna wasn&#8217;t certain if
she wanted the attention or not. Though the gnawing pain of hunger
had eventually driven her out onto busy streets, she was still
frightened that Denth or Vasher might find her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The more hungry she grew, the
less other worries seemed to bother her. Eating was a problem for
<i>now</i>.&#160; Being killed by Denth or Vasher was a problem for
<i>later</i>.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The flood of people in their
colors continued to pass. Vivenna watched them without focusing on
faces or bodies. Just colors. Like a spinning wheel, each spoke a
different hue. <i>Denth won&#8217;t find me here,</i> she thought.
<i>He won&#8217;t see the me in the beggar on the side of the
street.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her stomach growled.&#160; She
was learning to ignore it. Just like the people ignored her. She
didn&#8217;t feel like she was a true beggar or child of the
street, not after just one week. But she <i>was</i> learning to
imitate them, and her mind felt so fuzzy lately. Ever since
she&#8217;d gotten rid of her Breath.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She pulled the shawl close. She
kept it with her always.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She still hardly believed what
Denth and the others had done. She had such fond memories of their
joking. She couldn&#8217;t connect that to what she&#8217;d seen in
the cellar. In fact, sometimes, she found herself rising to seek
them out. Surely the things she&#8217;d seen had been
hallucinations. Surely they couldn&#8217;t be such terrible
men.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She sat back down.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>That&#8217;s foolish,</i>
she thought. <i>I need to focus. Why isn&#8217;t my mind working
right anymore?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Focus on what? There
wasn&#8217;t much to think about. She couldn&#8217;t go to Denth.
Parlin was dead. The city authorities would be no help--she had now
heard the rumors of the Idris princess who had been causing such
troubles. She&#8217;d be arrested in a heartbeat.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;There were soup kitchens in the
city, but the first one she&#8217;d gone to, she&#8217;d spotted
Tonk Fah lounging in a doorway across the street. She&#8217;d
turned and scurried away, hoping he hadn&#8217;t seen her. For the
same reason, she didn&#8217;t dare leave the city. Denth was sure
to have agents watching the gates. Besides, where would she go? She
didn&#8217;t have the supplies for a trip to back to Idris.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Perhaps she could leave if she
managed to save up enough money. That was hard, almost
impossible.&#160; Every time she got a coin, she spent it on food.
She couldn&#8217;t help herself.&#160; Nothing else seemed to
matter.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She&#8217;d already lost
weight. Her stomach growled.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;So, she sat, sweaty and dirty
in the meager shade. She still wore only her shift and the shawl,
though she was dirty enough that it was difficult to tell where
clothing ended and skin began. Her arrogance of days past, refusing
to wear anything but the rich dresses, now seemed ridiculous.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shook her head. One week on
the street felt like an eternity--yet she knew that she&#8217;d
only just begun to experience the life of the poor. How did they
survive? Sleeping in alleyways? Getting rained on every day?
Jumping at every sound? Feeling so hungry they were tempted to pick
at and eat the rotting garbage they found in gutters? She&#8217;d
tried that. She&#8217;d even managed to keep some down.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was the only thing
she&#8217;d had to eat in two days.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Someone paused beside her. She
looked up, eager, hand stretching further until she saw which
colors were represented. Yellow and Blue. City guard. She grabbed
at her shawl, pulling it closer. It was foolish, she knew--nobody
knew about the Breaths it contained. The move was reflexive. The
shawl was the only thing she owned, and--meager though it
was--several urchins had already tried stealing it from her while
she slept.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The guard didn&#8217;t reach
for her shawl. He just nudged her with his truncheon.
&#8220;Hey,&#8221; he said.&#160; &#8220;Move. No begging on this
corner.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He didn&#8217;t offer an
explanation. They never did. There were apparently rules about
where beggars could sit and where they couldn&#8217;t, but nobody
took thought to explain such things to the beggars. &#160;Laws were
things of lords and gods, not the lowly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I&#8217;m already starting
to think about lords as if they were some other group.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna rose, head bowed, and
felt a moment of nausea and dizziness. She rested against the side
of the building, and the guard nudged her again, prompting her to
shuffle away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She bowed her head and moved
along with the crowd, though most of them kept their distance from
her.&#160; Ironic that they would leave her space now that she
didn&#8217;t care. She didn&#8217;t want to think about how she
smelled--though more than the scent, it was the fear of being
robbed that probably kept the others away. They needn&#8217;t have
worried. &#160;She wasn&#8217;t skilled enough to cut purses or
pick pockets, and she couldn&#8217;t afford to get caught
trying.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She&#8217;d stopped worrying
about the morality of stealing days ago. Even before going to the
streets, she hadn&#8217;t been so naive to assume that she
wouldn&#8217;t steel if she were denied food--but she&#8217;d
assumed that it would take her far longer to reach that state.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She didn&#8217;t head to
another corner, but instead shuffled out of the crowds, making her
way back into the Idrian slums. Here she&#8217;d gained some small
measure of acceptance. At least she was considered one of them.
None knew that she was the princess--after that first man, nobody
had recognized her. However, her accent had earned her a place.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She began to search out a
location to spend the night. That was one of the reasons
she&#8217;d decided not to continue begging for the evening. It was
a profitable time, true, but she was just so tired. She wanted a
good place to sleep. She wouldn&#8217;t have thought that it would
make much difference which alleyway one huddled in, but some were
warmer than others and some had better cover from the rain. Some
were safer. She was beginning to learn these things, as well as who
to avoid making mad.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;In her case, that last group
included pretty much everyone--including the urchins. They were all
above her in the pecking order. She&#8217;d learned that second
first day. She&#8217;d tried to bring back a coin from selling her
hair, intending to save it for a chance at leaving the city. She
wasn&#8217;t certain how the urchins had known that she had coin,
but she&#8217;d gotten her first beating that day.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her favorite alleyway turned
out to be occupied by a group of men with dark expressions, doing
something that was obviously illegal. She left quickly, going to
her second favorite. It was crowded with a gang of urchins. The
ones who had beaten her before. She left that one quickly as
well.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The third alley it was, this
one beside a building that cooked bread. It was often warmer there,
perhaps from the ovens. She found it empty, but cold. &#160;The
ovens hadn&#8217;t been on today.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She laid down anyway, curling
up with her back against the bricks, clutching her shawl close. She
was out in moments, despite the lack of pillow or blanket.</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Forty</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri was sitting and having a
meal on the Court green when Tridees found her. She ignored him for
a time, content to pick at the dishes in front of her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The sea, she had decided, was
quite strange. What else could be said of a place that could spawn
creatures with such wiggly tentacles, other creatures with such
boneless bodies, and yet others with such needly skins? She poked
at something the locals called a cucumber, but which--in
actuality--tasted nothing like one.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She tried them all, testing
each one with her eyes closed, focusing on the flavor. Some
hadn&#8217;t been as bad as the others. She hadn&#8217;t really
liked any of them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I would have trouble
becoming a true Hallandren,</i> she decided, sipping her fruit
juice.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Fortunately, the juice was
delicious. The variety, and flavor, of the numerous Hallandren
fruits was almost as astounding as the oddness of its sea life.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tridees cleared his throat. The
God King&#8217;s high priest was not a man who was accustomed to
waiting.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri nodded to her serving
women, motioning for them to prepare another series of
plates.&#160; Susebron had given Siri some coaching on how to eat
with etiquette, and she wanted to practice. Coincidentally, his way
of eating--taking small bites, never really finishing anything--was
a rather good one for testing out new dishes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She wanted to become familiar
with Hallandren, its ways, its people, its tastes. She&#8217;d
forced her servants to begin talking to her more, and she planned
to meet with more of the gods. In the distance, she saw Lightsong
wandering by, and she waved to him fondly. He seemed
uncharacteristically preoccupied; he only gave a wave of his own,
and didn&#8217;t come to visit her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Pity,</i> she thought. <i>I
would have liked a good excuse to keep Tridees waiting even
longer.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The high priest cleared his
throat again, this time more demandingly. Finally, Siri stood,
waving for her servants to stay behind.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Would you mind walking
with me for a bit, your grace?&#8221; she asked lightly. She passed
him, moving in a gorgeous violet dress with a gossamer train that
trailed behind her in the grass.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He hurried to catch up.
&#8220;I need to speak to you about something.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; she said.
&#8220;I deduced that by the way that you summoned me several times
today.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You didn&#8217;t
come,&#8221; he said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It seems to me that the
wife of the God King should not make a habit of responding to
demands and hopping whenever she is requested.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tridees frowned.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;However,&#8221; she
continued, &#8220;I will of course make time for the high priest
himself, should he come to speak to me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He eyed her, standing tall and
straight-backed, wearing the God King&#8217;s colors of the
day--blue and copper. &#8220;You should not antagonize me, your
highness.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri felt just a flush off
anxiety, but caught her hair before it bleached white. &#8220;I am
not antagonizing you,&#8221; she said. &#8220;I am simply
establishing some things that should have been mine from the
beginning.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tridees got a hint of a smile
on his face.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>What?</i> Siri thought with
surprise. <i>Why that reaction?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;As they walked, he drew himself
up more straightly. &#8220;Is that so,&#8221; he said, his voice
turning condescending. &#8220;You know very little of what you
presume, your highness.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Blast!</i> she thought.
<i>How did this conversation get away from me so quickly?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I might say the same to
you, your grace.&#8221; The massive black temple of a palace loomed
above them, sheer ebony blocks stacked like the playthings of
gigantic child.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh?&#8221; he said,
glancing at her. &#8220;Somehow I doubt that.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She had to force back another
spear of anxiety. Tridees smiled again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Wait,</i> she thought.
<i>It&#8217;s like he can read my emotions. Like he can see. . .
.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her hair hadn&#8217;t changed
colors, at least not discernibly. She glanced at Tridees, trying to
figure out what was wrong. She noticed something interesting. In a
pool around Tridees, the grass seemed just a shade more
colorful.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Breath,</i> she thought.
<i>Of course he&#8217;d have it! He&#8217;s one of the most
powerful men in the kingdom.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;People with lots of Breath were
supposed to be able to see very minute changes in color. Could he
really be reading her from such faint reactions in her hair? Was
that why he had always been able to be so dismissive?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He could see her fear.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She gritted her teeth.&#160; In
her youth, Siri had ignored the exercises that Vivenna had done to
make sure she had complete control over her hair. People who knew
her would be able to read her emotions despite her hair, so what
was the point in learning to keep it the same color?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She hadn&#8217;t factored in a
Court of the Gods and men with the power of BioChroma. Those tutors
had been a <i>whole</i> lot more intelligent than Siri had given
them credit. As were the priests. Now that she thought about it, it
seemed obvious that Tridees and the others would have studied the
meanings of all the shades of the royal locks.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She needed to get the
conversation back on course. &#8220;Do not forget, Tridees,&#8221;
she said. &#8220;You are the one who came to see me. Obviously, I
have some power here, if I could force even the high priest to
come.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He glanced at her, eyes harsh.
Focusing, she kept her hair the deepest black. Black, for
confidence.&#160; She met his eyes, and let not even a slight
twinge color her locks.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He finally turned away.
&#8220;I have heard disturbing rumors.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes. It appears that you
are no longer fulfilling your wifely duties. Are you
pregnant?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; she said.
&#8220;I had my women&#8217;s issue just a couple of days ago. You
can ask my servants.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then why have you
stopped trying?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221; she asked
lightly. &#8220;Are your spies are annoyed to be missing their
nightly show?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tridees flushed just slightly.
He glanced at her, and she again managed to keep her hair
completely black. Not even a glimmer of white or red. He seemed
more uncertain.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You Idrians,&#8221; the
priest spat. &#8220;Living up in your lofty mountains, dirty and
uncultured, but still assuming that you&#8217;re better than us.
Don&#8217;t judge me. Don&#8217;t judge us.&#160; You know
nothing.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I know that you&#8217;ve
been listening in on the God King&#8217;s chamber.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Not just
listening,&#8221; Tridees said. &#8220;The first few nights, there
was a spy in the chambers itself.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri couldn&#8217;t mask this
blush. Her hair remained mostly black, but if Tridees really did
have enough BioChroma to distinguish subtle changes, he would have
noticed a bit of red in it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You are a foreign
element,&#8221; Tridees said, turning away. &#8220;I am well aware
of the poisonous things your monks teach, the hatred into which
you&#8217;re indoctrinated. Do you really think that we&#8217;d let
a woman from Idris confront the God King himself, alone, unwatched?
We had to make certain you weren&#8217;t intending to kill him.
We&#8217;re still not convinced.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You speak with
remarkable frankness,&#8221; she noted.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Just saying some things
that <i>I</i> should have established from the beginning,&#8221; he
said.&#160; They stopped in the shadow of the massive palace.
&#8220;You are not important here. Not compared to our God King. He
is everything, and you are <i>nothing</i>.&#160; Just like the rest
of us.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>If he&#8217;s so
important,</i> Siri thought, meeting Tridees&#8217; eyes, <i>then
why are you planning to kill him?</i> She held his eyes. She
wouldn&#8217;t have been able to do such a thing several months
ago. Even a few weeks ago, she would have looked away. But when she
felt weak, she remembered Susebron. Tridees was orchestrating the
plot to subdue, control, and eventually kill his own God King.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And Siri wanted to know
why.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I stopped having sex
with the God King on purpose,&#8221; she said, keeping her hair
dark with some effort. &#8220;I knew it would get your
attention.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;In truth, she had simply
stopped her little performances each night. Tridees&#8217;
reaction, however, proved what Bluefingers had told her--the
priests only listened, but did not watch. &#160;They believed her
acts. &#160;For that she could bless her luck.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They might still be unaware
that she could communicate with Susebron. She was extra careful to
whisper at night, and had even taken to writing things herself, to
keep up the charade. Then again, they might know. On that, she
couldn&#8217;t be sure.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You must produce an
heir,&#8221; Tridees said.&#160;&#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Or what? Why are you so
eager, Tridees?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It is none of your
concern,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Suffice it to say that I have
obligations that you cannot comprehend. I am subject to gods, and I
do their will, <i>not</i> yours.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well you&#8217;re going
to have to bend that last part a bit if you want your heir,&#8221;
Siri said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tridees obviously did not like
how the conversation was going. He glanced at her hair. And,
somehow, she kept it from showing even a slight bit of uncertainty.
He glanced back at her eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You can&#8217;t kill me
Tridees,&#8221; she said. &#8220;Not if you want a Royal heir. You
can&#8217;t bully me or force me. Only the God King could do that.
And, we know how <i>he</i> is.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t know what
you mean,&#8221; Tridees said flatly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, come now,&#8221;
Siri said. &#8220;You didn&#8217;t honestly expect me to sleep with
the man and not find out he has no tongue? That he&#8217;s
virtually a child? I doubt he can even go to the privy without help
from some servants.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tridees flushed with anger.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>He really does care,</i>
Siri thought with an abstract interest. <i>Or, at least, insulting
his God King insults him. He&#8217;s more devoted than I would have
given him credit.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;So it probably wasn&#8217;t
about money. She couldn&#8217;t be sure, but she suspected that
this was not the type of man to sell out his religion. Whatever the
reasonings for what was happening inside the palace, it probably
had to do with true conviction.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Revealing what she knew about
Susebron was a gamble. She figured that Tridees would guess anyway,
and so it would be better to indicate that she thought Susebron a
fool with the mind of a child. Give away one bit of information,
but add deception to it to turn her opponents the wrong direction.
If they assumed that she thought Susebron a fool, they
wouldn&#8217;t suspect an alliance between her and her husband.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri wasn&#8217;t sure if she
was doing the right thing. But needed to learn, or Susebron would
die. And the only way to learn was to do. She didn&#8217;t have
much, but she <i>did</i> have something that the priests wanted:
her womb.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It seemed that she could hold
it for ransom effectively, for Tridees pushed down his anger and
maintained a semblance of calmness. He glanced up at the palace,
turning from her. &#8220;Do you know much about the history of this
kingdom?&#8221; he asked. &#8220;After your family departed, of
course.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri frowned, surprised at the
question. <i>More than you probably think,</i> she thought to
herself.&#160; &#8220;Not really,&#8221; she said out loud.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Lord Peacegiver left us
with a challenge,&#8221; Tridees said. &#8220;He gave us the
treasure our God King now holds, a wealth of BioChromatic Breath
like nobody had ever seen. &#160;Over fifty thousand Breaths. He
told us to keep them safe.&#8221; Tridees turned back to her.&#160;
&#8220;And he warned us not to use it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri felt a slight shiver.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I do not expect you to
understand what we have done,&#8221; Tridees said. &#8220;But it
was necessary.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Necessary to keep a man
in bondage?&#8221; Siri said. &#8220;To remove his ability to
speak, to make a continual child out of a grown man? He
didn&#8217;t even understand what he was supposed to do with a
woman!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It was necessary,&#8221;
Tridees said, jaw set. &#8220;You Idrians. Just because it&#8217;s
<i>different</i>, you look down on it. You don&#8217;t even try to
understand. I&#8217;ve had dealings with your father for years, and
I sense the same ignorant prejudice in him.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>He&#8217;s baiting me,</i>
Siri thought, keeping her emotions in check. It was harder than
she&#8217;d have thought. &#160;&#8220;Believing in Austre instead
of your living gods is not ignorance. After all, you&#8217;re the
ones who abandoned your faith and looked toward an easier
path.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tridees shrugged. &#8220;We
follow the god who came to protect us when your Austre--an unseen,
unknown thing--abandoned us to the destroyer Klad. Peacegiver came
back to life with a specific purpose--to stop the conflict between
men, to bring peace again to Hallandren.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He glanced at her.&#160;
&#8220;His name is holy. <i>He</i> is the one who gave us life,
Princess. And he only asked one thing of us: to care for his power.
He died to give it to us, but demanded that it be held in case he
should Return again and need it. We couldn&#8217;t let it be used.
We couldn&#8217;t let it be profaned. Not even by our God
King.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He fell silent.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>So how do you get that
treasure away from him?</i> she thought. She was tempted to ask.
Would that be giving away too much?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Finally, Tridees spoke.&#160;
&#8220;I see now why your father sent you instead of the other one.
We should have focused more on all of the daughters, not just the
first. You are far more capable than we had been led to
believe.&#8221; The statement surprised her, but she kept her hair
in check. Tridees sighed, looking away. &#8220;What are your
demands? What will it take to make you return to your. . .work each
night?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My servants,&#8221; she
said. &#8220;I want to replace my main serving women with the women
from Pahn Kahl.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You are displeased with
your serving women?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Not in
particular,&#8221; Siri said. &#8220;I simply feel that I have more
in common with the women of Pahn Kahl. They, like me, are living in
exile from their own people. Plus, I like the browns they
wear.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course,&#8221;
Tridees said, obviously thinking her Idrian prejudices to be behind
the request.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The Hallandren girls can
continue to serve in the place that the Pahn Kahl women did,&#8221;
Siri said.&#160; &#8220;They don&#8217;t have to leave me
completely--in fact, I still want to talk to some of them. However,
the main women who are with me always, they are to be from Pahn
Kahl.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;As I said,&#8221;
Tridees said. &#8220;It shall be done. You&#8217;ll return to your
efforts, then?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;For now,&#8221; Siri
said.&#160; &#8220;That will earn you a few more weeks.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tridees flushed in anger, but
what could he really do? Siri smiled at him, then turned and
trailed away. However, she found herself a little dissatisfied with
the way the conversation had gone. She&#8217;d achieved a
victory--but at the cost of antagonizing Tridees even further.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I doubt he would have taking
a liking to me, no matter how hard I tried,</i> she decided,
sitting down in her pavilion. <i>This is probably the better
way.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She still didn&#8217;t know
what was going to happen to Susebron, but she knew she could
manipulate the priests at least a small measure. That meant
something, though she knew she was walking on dangerous ground. She
turned back to her meal, ready to try another round of sea food.
She did her best to learn about Hallandren, but if it came down to
Susebron&#8217;s life, she was going to get him out. Hopefully,
giving Bluefingers&#8217; Pahn Kahl a more prominent position
around her would facilitate that escape. Hopefully.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;With a sigh, she raised the
first bit of food to her lips and continued with her
tasting.&#160;</p>
<span style=
'font-size:14.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<h1>Chapter Forty-One</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna presented her coin.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;One bit?&#8221; Cads
asked.&#160; &#8220;That&#8217;s all? One <i>single</i> bit?&#8221;
He was among the dirtiest of men she&#8217;d met, even in the
streets. He liked fancy clothing, though. It was his style--worn
and dirty clothing of the most trendy designs. He seemed to think
it was funny. A mockery of the highborn.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He turned her coin over in his
fingers. &#8220;One bit,&#8221; he repeated.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Please,&#8221; Vivenna
whispered. They stood at the mouth of an alley at the back two
restaurants.&#160; Just inside the alley, she could see urchins
rooting in the garbage. Fresh garbage from <i>two</i> restaurants.
She salivated.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I find it hard to
believe, lady girly,&#8221; he said, &#8220;that <i>this</i> is all
you made today.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Please, Cads,&#8221; she
said again. &#8220;You know. . .you know I don&#8217;t beg
well.&#8221; It was starting to rain. Again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You should do
better,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Even the children can bring me at
least two.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Behind him, the fortunates who
had pleased him continued to feast. It smelled so good. Or maybe
that was the restaurants.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I haven&#8217;t eaten in
days,&#8221; she whispered, blinking away the rain.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then do better
tomorrow,&#8221; he said, shooing her away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My coin--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Cads immediately waved for his
toughs as she reached toward him. Vivenna shied away reflexively,
stumbling.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Two tomorrow,&#8221;
Cads said, walking into his alleyway. &#8220;I have to pay the
restaurant owners, you know. Can&#8217;t let you eat for
free.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna stood, staring. Not
because she thought she could get him to change his mind. But
because she just had trouble making her mind understand. It was her
last chance for food this day. One bit wouldn&#8217;t buy anything
more than a mouthful elsewhere, but here--last time--it had let her
eat until she was full.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That had been a week ago. How
long had she been on the streets now? She didn&#8217;t know. She
turned, dully, and pulled her shawl tight. It was dusk. She should
go beg some more.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She couldn&#8217;t. Not after
losing that bit. She felt shaken, as if her most valuable
possession had been stolen.&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;No. <i>No</i>. She still had
that. She pulled the shawl close.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Why was it important again?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shuffled back toward the
Highlands. Her home. A part of her realized that she
shouldn&#8217;t feel so distant from the person she had been. She
was a princess, wasn&#8217;t she? But she felt so sick lately, sick
enough that she didn&#8217;t even think she could feel the hunger
anymore. It was all so wrong. So very, very wrong.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She entered the slums and crept
along, careful to keep her head bowed, her back cowed, lest someone
take offense at her. She hesitated as she walked, however, passing
a street to her right. &#160;It was where the whores waited,
protected from the drizzle by an awning.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna stared at them,
standing in their revealing clothing. It was only two streets into
the slum, a place that wasn&#8217;t too threatening for outsiders.
Everyone knew not to rob a man on his way to visit the whores. The
slum lords didn&#8217;t like it when their customers got scared
away. Bad for business, as Denth might say.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna stood for a long
moment. The whores looked fed. They weren&#8217;t dirty. Several of
them laughed. She could join them. An urchin had spoken of it the
other day, mentioned that she was still young. He&#8217;d wanted
her to come to the slum lord with him, hoping to get some coin for
recruiting a willing girl.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was so tempting.&#160; Food.
Warmth. A dry bed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Blessed Austre,</i> she
thought, shaking herself. <i>What am I thinking? What is wrong with
my mind?</i> It was so hard to focus. As if she were in a trance
all the time.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She forced herself to keep
moving, stumbling away from the women. She wouldn&#8217;t do that.
Not yet.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Not yet.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Oh, Lord of Colors,</i> she
thought with horror. <i>I need to get out of this city. Better for
me to die, starving on the road back to Idris--better to get taken
by Denth and tortured--than to end up in the brothel.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;However, much like the morality
of stealing, the morality of using her body seemed much more vague
to her now, when her hunger was such an omnipresent need. She made
her way to her latest alleyway. She&#8217;d been kicked out of the
others. But this one was good. It was secluded, yet often filled
with younger urchins. Their company made her feel better, though
she knew they searched her at night for coins.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I can&#8217;t believe how
tired I am. . . .</i> she thought, feeling dizzy, putting her hand
against the wall. She took a few deep breaths. The spells often
struck these days.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She started forward again. The
alleyway was empty, everyone else staying out in the evening to try
getting a few extra coins. She took the best of the spots--an
earthen mound which had managed to grow a small tuft of grass.
There weren&#8217;t even that many rocks in the dirt, though it
would be wet with mud from the light rain. She didn&#8217;t care
about that.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Shadows darkened the alleyway
behind her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her reaction was immediate. She
started to run. Living on the streets taught quick lessons.&#160;
Weak as she was, she managed a burst of speed. However, another
shadow stepped across the other end of the alley in front of her.
She froze, then turned, looking to see a group of street thugs
moving down the alleyway behind her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;At their back was the man who
had robbed her a few weeks ago, taking her dress. &#160;He looked
chagrined. &#8220;Sorry, Princess,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Bounty
just got too high. Took me blasted long enough to find you, though.
You did a great job of hiding.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna blinked. And then she
simply let herself slide down to the ground.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I just can&#8217;t take any
more,</i> she thought, wrapping her arms around herself. She was
exhausted. Mentally, emotionally, completely. In a way, she was
glad it was over. She didn&#8217;t know what the men would do to
her, but she did know it was over. Whomever they sold her to
wouldn&#8217;t be foolish enough to let her escape again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The thugs clustered around her.
She heard one mention Denth. Rough hands grabbed her arm, towing
her to her feet. She followed with head bowed. They led her out
onto the main street. It was growing dim, but no urchins or beggars
made their way toward the alley.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I should have realized,</i>
she thought. <i>It was too deserted.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Everything, finally,
overwhelmed her. She couldn&#8217;t summon the energy to care about
escaping, not again. A part of her, deep inside, realized that her
tutors had been right. When you were weak and hungry, it was hard
to summon the energy to care about anything, even escape.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She had trouble remembering her
tutors now. She had trouble even remembering what it was like to
not be hungry.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The thugs stopped walking.
Vivenna looking up, blinking away her dizziness. There was
something in the dark, wet street in front of them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A black sword in a silver
sheath stuck from the ground. The weapon, sheath and all, had
somehow been rammed down into the earth.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The street grew still.&#160;
One of the thugs stepped forward, pulling the sword from the
ground. He undid the sheath clasp. Vivenna felt a sudden nausea,
more of a memory than a real emotion. She stumbled back,
horrified.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The other thugs, transfixed,
stepped up around their friend. One of them reached for the
hilt.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man carrying the sword
struck. He swung the weapon, sheath and all, into the face of his
friend. A black smoke began to twist out of the sheath, rising from
the tiny bit of the blade that was visible.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Men cried out, each one
scrambling for the sword. The man holding it continued to swing,
the weapon hitting with far more force and damage than it should
have. Bones broke, blood began to run on the cobblestones. The man
continued to attack, moving with a terrible speed. Vivenna, still
stumbling backward, could see his eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They were terrified.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He killed his last friend--the
one who had robbed her on that day that seemed so long ago--by
slamming the sheathed sword down against the man&#8217;s back.
Bones cracked. By now, the clothing on the first man&#8217;s arm
had disintegrated, and a blackness--like vines growing on a
wall--had twisted up around his shoulder.&#160; Black, pulsing
veins that bulged out of the skin. The man screamed a piercing,
desperate cry.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Then he twisted the sword
around and rammed it, sheath and all, through his chest. It cut
skin and flesh, though the sheath itself didn&#8217;t seem
sharpened. The man stumbled to his knees, then slumped backward,
twitching, staring up into the air as the black veins on his arm
began to evaporate. He died like that, kneeling, sword sticking
down through his chest and propping him up from behind.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna stood alone on a street
littered with corpses. A figure dropped from a rooftop, lowered by
two twisting lengths of animated rope. He landed softly, ropes
falling dead.&#160; He passed Vivenna, ignoring her, and grabbed
the sword. He paused for a moment, then did the clasp up and pulled
the weapon--sheath and all--free from the corpse.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The dead man finally fell to
the ground.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna stared dully ahead.
Then, numb, she sat down in the street. She didn&#8217;t even
twitch as Vasher picked her up and slung her over his shoulder.</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Forty-Two</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Her Excellency is not
interested in seeing you,&#8221; the priestess said, maintaining a
reverent posture.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well I&#8217;m not
interested in her disinterest,&#8221; Lightsong said.
&#8220;Perhaps you should ask her again, just to be
sure.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priestess bowed her head.
&#8220;My pardons, your Excellency, but I have already asked
fourteen times.&#160; Goddess Allmother is growing impatient with
your requests, and she asked me not to respond to them any
more.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Did she give the same
command to any of the other priestesses?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priestess paused.&#160;
&#8220;Well, no, your Excellency.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Wonderful,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;Send for one of them. Then send <i>her</i>
to ask Allmother if she will see me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priestess sighed visibly;
Lightsong considered that something of a victory. Allmother&#8217;s
priests were among the most pious--and most humble--in the Court.
If he could annoy them, he could annoy anyone.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He waited, hands on hips as the
priestess went to do his bidding. Allmother could give them orders
and commands, but she couldn&#8217;t tell them to completely ignore
Lightsong. After all, he was a god too. As long as he asked them to
do things other than what Allmother had explicitly told them not to
do, they had to obey.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Even if it annoyed their
goddess.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m developing a
new skill,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;Irritation by
proxy!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar sighed. &#8220;What
about your speech to Goddess Blushweaver a few days ago, your
Excellency? It seemed to imply that you were <i>not</i> going to
annoy people as much.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I said nothing of the
sort,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;I simply said that I was coming
to recognize within myself a little more of the person I used to
be. That doesn&#8217;t mean I&#8217;m going to discard all the
progress I&#8217;ve made over the last few years.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your sense of
self-awareness is remarkable, your grace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I know! Now, hush.&#160;
The priestess is coming back.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Indeed, the woman approached
and bowed herself before Lightsong on the grass. &#8220;My
apologies, your Excellency. Our Goddess, however, has now requested
that <i>no</i> priestess be allowed to ask her if you can come in
to meet her.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Did she tell them that
they couldn&#8217;t ask if she would come out here?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, your
Excellency,&#8221; the priestess said. &#8220;And every other
phrasing that would imply asking her to come within your grace's
proximity, or communicate with him by letter, or relay messages
from him in any form.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Hum,&#8221; he said,
tapping his chin. &#8220;She&#8217;s getting better. Well, I guess
there&#8217;s nothing to be done.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priestess relaxed
visibly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Scoot, set up my
pavilion here in front of her palace,&#8221; Lightsong said.
&#8220;I&#8217;m going to be sleeping here tonight.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priestess looked up.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;re going to do
<i>what?</i>&#8221; Llarimar asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong shrugged.&#160;
&#8220;I&#8217;m not moving until I meet with her. That means
staying until she acknowledges me. It&#8217;s been a week! If she
wants to be stubborn, then I&#8217;ll prove that I can be
<i>equally</i> stubborn.&#8221; He eyed the priestess.
&#8220;I&#8217;m quite practiced at it, you know. Being an
insufferable buffoon, and all. I don&#8217;t suppose she forbid you
from letting squirrels into the building?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Squirrels, your
grace?&#8221; the woman asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Excellent,&#8221;
Lightsong said, sitting down as his servants erected the pavilion.
He pulled the Lifeless squirrel from its box and held it
forward.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Almond grass,&#8221; he
said quietly, giving the new Command he&#8217;d had his people
imprint on the Lifeless.&#160; Then he spoke louder, so that the
priestess could hear. &#8220;Go into the building, search out the
Returned who lives in it, and run around in circles squeaking as
loudly as you can. Don&#8217;t let anyone catch you. Oh, and
destroy as much furniture as you can. Almond grass.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The squirrel immediately jumped
off his hand and shot toward the palace. The priestess spun,
horrified. She squirrel began to screech with a sound that seemed
rather un-squirrel like. It disappeared into the building, slipping
between the legs of a startled guard.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What a delightful
afternoon it&#8217;s becoming,&#8221; Lightsong said, reaching for
a handful of grapes as the priestess rushed after the squirrel.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It won&#8217;t be able
to follow all of those orders, your grace,&#8221; Llarimar said.
&#8220;It has the mind of a squirrel, despite the power that Breath
gives it to obey Commands.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong shrugged.&#160;
&#8220;We shall see.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He began to hear screams of
annoyance from inside the palace. He smiled.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It took longer than he had
expected. Allmother was a stubborn one, as proved by
Blushweaver&#8217;s complete inability to manipulate her. As he
sat--idly listening to a group of musicians--a priestess
occasionally checked on him. Several hours passed. He didn&#8217;t
eat or drink very much so he didn&#8217;t need to visit the
privy.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He ordered his musicians to
play louder. He had picked a group with a lot of percussion.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Finally, a frazzled-looking
priestess left the palace. &#8220;Her Excellency will see
you,&#8221; the woman said, bowing before Lightsong.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Hum?&#8221; Lightsong
said.&#160; &#8220;Oh, that. Do I have to go now? Can I finish
listening to this song?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priestess glanced up.
&#8220;I--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, very well
then,&#8221; Lightsong said, rising.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Allmother was still in her
audience chamber. Lightsong hesitated in the doorway--which, like
those in every palace, was cut to the size of a god. He frowned to
himself.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;People still waited in a line
and Allmother sat in a throne at the front of the room. She was
stocky for a goddess; he had always thought that her white hair and
wrinkled face stood out among the pantheon. By age of body, she was
the oldest of the gods.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It had been a while since
he&#8217;d come to visit her. In fact. . . .</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>The last time I was here was
before Calmseer gave up her Breath,</i> he realized. <i>That
evening, years ago, when we shared what would be her last
meal.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He&#8217;d never come
back.&#160; What would have been the point? They&#8217;d only
gotten together in the first place because of Calmseer. During most
of the meetings, Allmother had been quite vocal about what she
thought of Lightsong. At least she was honest.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That was more than he could say
for himself.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She didn&#8217;t acknowledge
him as he entered. She continued to sit, a little stooped over,
listening to the man petitioning her. He was middle aged and stood
awkwardly, leaning on a walking staff.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;. . .my children are
starving now,&#8221; he said. &#8220;I cannot afford the food. I
figured if my leg worked, I could go back to the docks.&#8221; He
looked down.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your faith is
commendable,&#8221; Allmother said. &#8220;Tell me, how did you
lose the use of your leg?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;A fishing accident, your
grace,&#8221; the man said. &#160;&#8220;I came down from the
highlands a few years back, when late frosts took my crops. I took
a job on one of the stormrunners--the ships who go out during the
spring tempests, catching fish when others remain in the harbor.
The accident crushed a barrel against me leg. Nobody will take me
on to work the boats, not with a lame leg.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Allmother nodded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I wouldn&#8217;t have
come to you,&#8221; he said. &#8220;But with my wife sick and my
daughter crying with such hunger. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Allmother reached a hand out,
laying it on the man&#8217;s shoulder. &#8220;I understand your
difficulties, but your problems are not as severe as you may think.
Go and speak with my high priest. I have a man on the docks who
owes me allegiance. You have two good hands; you will be put to
work sewing nets.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man looked up, hope
glimmering in his eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We will send you with
enough food to care for your family until you learn your new
trade,&#8221; Allmother said. &#8220;Go with my
blessing.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man rose, then fell back to
his knees and began to cry. &#8220;Thank you,&#8221; he whispered.
&#8220;Thank you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Priests walked forward and led
the man away. The room fell still, and Allmother looked over,
meeting Lightsong&#8217;s eyes. She nodded to the side, where a
priest stepped up, holding a bundle of fur tied tightly with
ropes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;This is yours, I am
told?&#8221; Allmother asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ah, yes,&#8221;
Lightsong said, flushing slightly. &#8220;Terribly sorry about
that. It kind of got away from me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;With an accidental
Command to find me?&#8221; Allmother asked. &#8220;Then run around
in circles screaming?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That actually
worked?&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;Interesting. My high priest
didn&#8217;t think the squirrel brain would be capable of following
such complicated Commands.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Allmother regarded him with a
flat look.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh,&#8221; Lightsong
said.&#160; &#8220;I mean, &#8216;Whoops. It completely
misunderstood me. Stupid squirrel.&#8217; My deepest apologize,
honored sister.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Allmother sighed, then waved
toward a doorway on the side of the room. Lightsong walked over to
it and she followed, a few servants trailing. Allmother moved with
a stiff agedness. <i>Is it me, or does she look older than she did
before?</i> That was, of course, impossible. Returned did not age.
At least, not the ones who had reached maturity.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Once they were out of earshot
and eyeshot of the petitioners, Allmother grabbed his arm.
&#8220;What in the name of the Colors do you think you are
doing?&#8221; she snapped.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong turned, raising an
eyebrow. &#8220;Well, you wouldn&#8217;t see me,
and&#173;--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Do you intend to destroy
what little authority we have left, you idiot?&#8221; Allmother
asked.&#160; &#8220;Already, people in the city are saying that the
Returned are growing weak, that the best of us died years
ago.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Maybe they&#8217;re
right.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Allmother scowled. &#8220;If
too many of them believe that, then we lose our access to Breaths.
Have you considered that? Have you considered what your lack of
decorum, your flippancy, could cost all of us?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Is that the reason for
the show then?&#8221; he asked, glancing back through the
doorway.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Once, the Returned
didn&#8217;t just listen to petitions and say yes or no,&#8221;
Allmother said. &#8220;They would take the time to hear each person
who came to them, then seek to help them as best they
could.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Seems like an awful lot
of trouble.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We&#8217;re their
<i>gods</i>.&#160; Should a bit of trouble deter us?&#8221; She
eyed him. &#8220;Oh, of course. We wouldn&#8217;t want to let
something as simple as the pains of our people interfere with our
leisure time. Why am I even talking to you?&#8221; She turned to
wander from of the room.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I came to give you my
Lifeless Commands,&#8221; Lightsong said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Allmother froze.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Blushweaver has control
of two sets of Commands,&#8221; Lightsong said, &#8220;which gives
her control of half of our armies. That worries me for a reason I
can&#8217;t explain. I mean, I trust her as much as I trust any
other Returned. But if war does come, then she&#8217;ll quickly
become the second most powerful person in the kingdom. Only the God
King would have more authority.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Allmother regarded him with an
unreadable expression.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I figure that the best
way to counter her is to have someone else who has two sets of
Commands,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;Perhaps it will give her
pause. Keep her from doing anything too rash.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;There was silence in the
room.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Calmseer trusted
you,&#8221; Allmother finally said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Her one flaw, I must
profess,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;Even goddesses have them, or
so I&#8217;m told. I&#8217;ve found it gentlemanly to never point
such things out.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;She was the best of
us,&#8221; Allmother said, glancing out in the direction of her
supplicants. &#8220;She would meet with people all day. They loved
her.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Bottom line blue,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;That&#8217;s my core security phrase.
Please, take it. I&#8217;ll tell Blushweaver that you bullied me
into giving it to you. She&#8217;ll be angry at me, of course, but
it won&#8217;t be the first time.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; Allmother
finally said. &#8220;No, I&#8217;m not letting you out of this so
easily, Lightsong.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221; he asked,
startled.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Can&#8217;t you feel
it?&#8221; she asked. &#8220;Something is happening in the city.
This mess with the Idrians and their slums, the increasingly
violent arguments among our priests.&#8221; She shook her head.
&#8220;I&#8217;m not letting you wiggle out of your part. You were
chosen for that place of yours. You&#8217;re a god, like the rest
of us, even if you try your best to pretend otherwise.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You already have my
Command, Allmother,&#8221; he said with a shrug, walking toward a
doorway to leave.&#160; &#8220;Do what you will with it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Verdant bells,&#8221;
Allmother said. &#8220;That&#8217;s mine.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong closed his eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Now two of us know both
of them,&#8221; Allmother said. &#8220;If what you said earlier was
true, then it&#8217;s better that our Commands be
distributed.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He spun. &#160;&#8220;You were
just calling me a fool! Now you entrust me with command of your
soldiers? I must ask, Allmother, and please think me not rude. But
what in the name of the <i>Colors</i> is wrong with you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I dreamed that you would
come today,&#8221; she said, meeting his gaze. &#8220;I saw it in
the pictures. I remembered noise when I awoke and I saw Lifeless
eyes watching me. I saw patterns of circles in the paintings, all
red and gold. Your colors.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Coincidence,&#8221; he
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She snorted quietly.&#160;
&#8220;Someday, you&#8217;ll have to get over your foolish
selfishness, Lightsong. This isn&#8217;t just about us. I&#8217;ve
decided to start doing a better job of things.&#160; Perhaps you
should take a look at who you are and what you are
doing.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ah, my dear
Allmother,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;You see, the problem in
that challenge is the presumption that I haven&#8217;t <i>tried</i>
to be something other than what I am. Every time I do, disaster is
the result.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, you now have my
Commands. For better, or for worse.&#8221; The aged Goddess turned
away, walking back toward her room of supplicants. &#8220;I, for
one, am curious to see how you handle them.&#8221;</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Forty-Three</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna awoke, sick, tired,
thirsty, starving.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But alive.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She opened her eyes, feeling a
strange sensation. Comfort. She was in a comfortable plush
bed.&#160; She sat up immediately; her head spun.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;d be
careful,&#8221; a voice said. &#8220;Your body is weak.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She blinked fuzzy eyes,
focusing on a figure sitting at a table a short distance away, his
back to her. He appeared to be eating.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A black sword in a silver
sheath rested against the table.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You,&#8221; she
whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Me,&#8221; he said
between bites.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She looked down at herself. She
wasn&#8217;t wearing her shift any more, but instead had on a set
of soft cotton sleeping garments. Her body was clean. She raised a
hand to her hair, feeling that the tangles and mats were gone. It
was still white.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She felt so strange to be
clean.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Did you rape me?&#8221;
she said quietly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He snorted. &#8220;A woman
who&#8217;s been to Denth&#8217;s bed holds no temptation for
me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I never slept with
him,&#8221; she said, though she didn&#8217;t know why she cared to
tell him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher turned, face still
wearing the patchy, unkempt beard. His clothing was far less fine
than her own. He studied her eyes. &#8220;He had you fooled,
didn&#8217;t he?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She nodded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Idiot.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She nodded again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He turned back to his meal.
&#8220;The woman who runs this building,&#8221; he said. &#8220;I
paid her to bathe you, dress you, and change your bedpan. I never
touched you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She frowned. &#8220;What. .
.happened?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Do you remember the
fight on the street?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;With your
sword?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He nodded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Vaguely. You saved
me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I kept a tool out of
Denth&#8217;s hands,&#8221; he said. &#8220;That&#8217;s all that
really matters.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Thank you
anyway.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He was silent for a few
moments. &#8220;You&#8217;re welcome,&#8221; he finally said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why do I feel so. .
.?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Tramaria,&#8221; the man
said. &#8220;It&#8217;s a sickness, one you don&#8217;t have in the
highlands. Insect bites spread it. You probably got it a few weeks
before I found you. It stays with you, if you&#8217;re
weak.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She put a hand to her head.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You probably had a
pretty bad time lately,&#8221; Vasher noted. &#8220;What with the
dizziness, the dementia, and the hunger.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; she
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You deserved it.&#8221;
He continued to eat.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She didn&#8217;t move for a
long moment. His food smelled so good, but she&#8217;d apparently
been fed on broth while she slept, for she wasn&#8217;t as famished
as she might have thought. Just mildly hungry. &#8220;How long was
I unconscious?&#8221; she asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;A week,&#8221; he
said.&#160; &#8220;You should sleep some more.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What are you going to do
with me?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He didn&#8217;t reply.
&#8220;The BioChromatic Breaths you had,&#8221; he said. &#8220;You
gave them to Denth?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She paused, thinking.&#160;
&#8220;Yes.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He glanced at her, raising an
eyebrow.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; she admitted,
looking away. &#8220;I put them in the shawl I was
wearing.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He stood, leaving the room. She
considered running. Instead, she moved over and began to eat at his
food--a fish, whole and fried. Seafood didn&#8217;t bother her
anymore.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He returned, then stopped in
the doorway, watching her ravage the fish bones. He didn&#8217;t
force her out of the seat; he simply took the other chair at the
table. Finally, he held up the shawl, washed and clean.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;This?&#8221; he
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She froze, a bit of fish on her
cheek.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He set the shawl on the table
beside her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;re giving it
back to me?&#8221; she asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shrugged. &#8220;If there
really is Breath stored in it, I can&#8217;t get to it. Only you
can.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She picked it up. &#8220;I
don&#8217;t know the Command.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He raised an eyebrow.&#160;
&#8220;You escaped those ropes of mine without Awakening
them?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shook her head. &#8220;I
guessed that Command.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I should have gagged you
better. What do you mean you &#8216;guessed&#8217; it?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It was the first time
I&#8217;d ever used Breath.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s right,
you&#8217;re of the Royal line.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What does that
mean?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He just shook his head,
pointing toward the shawl. &#8220;Your Breath to mine,&#8221; he
said. &#8220;That&#8217;s the Command you want.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She laid her hand on the shawl
and said the words. Immediately, everything changed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her dizziness went away. Her
deadness to the world vanished. She gasped, shaking with the
pleasure of Breath restored. It was so strong that she actually
fell from the chair, quivering in wonder like a person having a
fit. It was amazing. She could sense life. Could sense Vasher,
making a pocket of color around him that was bright and beautiful.
She was <i>alive</i> again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She basked in that for a long
moment.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s shocking,
when you first get it,&#8221; Vasher said. &#8220;It&#8217;s
usually not too bad if you take the Breath back after only an hour
or so. Wait weeks, though, and it&#8217;s like taking it in for the
first time.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Smiling, feeling amazing, she
climbed back into the seat and wiped the fish from her face.
&#8220;My sickness is gone!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course,&#8221; he
said.&#160; &#8220;You&#8217;ve got enough Breath for at least the
Third Heightening, if I&#8217;m reading you right. You&#8217;ll
never know sickness. You&#8217;ll barely even age. Assuming you
manage to hang onto the Breath, of course.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She looked up at him in a
panic.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; he said.
&#8220;I&#8217;m not going to force you to give it to me. Though I
probably should. You&#8217;re far more trouble than you&#8217;re
worth, Princess.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She turned back to the food,
feeling more confident. It seemed as if the last few weeks had been
a nightmare. A bubble, surreal, disconnected. Had it really been
her who had sat on the street, begging? Had she really slept in the
rain, lived in the mud? Had she really considered turning to
prostitution?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She had. She couldn&#8217;t
forget just because she now had Breath again. And, truthfully, she
couldn&#8217;t help blaming her experience upon her becoming a
Drab. Perhaps the sickness had a part in it too. However, the
greatest part had been simple desperation.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;All right,&#8221; he
said, standing, picking up the black sword. &#8220;Time to
go.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Go where?&#8221; she
asked, suspicious. The last time she had met this man, he&#8217;d
bound her, forced her to touch that sword of hers, and left her
gagged.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He ignored her concern, tossing
a pile of clothing onto the table. &#8220;Put this on.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She picked through it.&#160;
Thick trousers, a tunic that tucked into them, a vest to go over
the tunic.&#160; All of various shades of blue. There were
undergarments of a less bright color.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s a
man&#8217;s clothing,&#8221; she said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s
utilitarian,&#8221; Vasher said, walking toward the doorway.
&#8220;I&#8217;m not going to waste money buying you rich dresses,
princess. You&#8217;ll just have to get used to those.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She opened her mouth, but then
shut it, discarding her complaint. &#160;She&#8217;d just spent. .
.she didn&#8217;t know how long running around in a thin,
nearly-translucent shift that had only covered her to mid thigh.
She took the trousers and shirts thankfully.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Please,&#8221; she said,
turning toward him. &#8220;I appreciate this clothing. But can I at
least know where you intend to do with me?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher hesitated in the
doorway. &#8220;I have work for you to do.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shivered, thinking of the
bodies Denth had shown her, and of the men Vasher had killed.
&#8220;You&#8217;re going to kill again, aren&#8217;t
you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He turned back toward her,
frowning. &#8220;Denth is working toward something. I&#8217;m going
to block him.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Denth was working for
me,&#8221; she said. &#8220;Or, at least, he was pretending to. All
of those things he did, they were at my command. He was just
playing along to keep me complacent.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher laughed a barking laugh,
and Vivenna flushed. Her hair--responding to her mood for the first
time since her shock at seeing Parlin dead--turned red.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It felt so surreal.&#160; Two
weeks on the street and now, suddenly, fed she felt like her old
self again? It was the Breath. The beautiful, wonderful Breath. She
never wanted to be parted from it again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Not her old self at all. Who
was she, then? Did it matter?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You laugh at me,&#8221;
she said, turning to Vasher. &#8220;But I was just doing the best I
could. I wanted to help my people in the upcoming war. Fight
against Hallandren.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Hallandren isn&#8217;t
your enemy.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It is,&#8221; she said
sharply. &#8220;And it is planning to march on my
people.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The priests have good
reasons for acting like they do.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna snorted.&#160;
&#8220;Denth said that every man thinks he&#8217;d doing the right
thing, in his head.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Denth is too smart for
his own good. He was playing with you, princess.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What do you
mean?&#8221;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Didn&#8217;t it ever
occur to you?&#8221; Vasher asked. &#8220;Attacking supply
caravans? Rousing the Idris poor to rebel? &#160;Reminding them of
Vahr and his promises of freedom, which were so fresh in their
minds. &#160;Showing yourself to thug lords, making them think that
Idris was working to undermine the Hallandren government? Princess,
you say every man thinks he&#8217;s on the right side, that every
man who opposed you was deluding himself.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He met her eyes.
&#8220;Didn&#8217;t you ever once stop to think that maybe
<i>you</i> were the one on the wrong side?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna froze.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Denth wasn&#8217;t
working for you,&#8221; Vasher said. &#8220;He wasn&#8217;t even
pretending to. Someone in this city hired him to start a war
between Idris and Hallandren, and he&#8217;s spent these last few
months using you to make it happen. I&#8217;m trying to figure out
why. Who&#8217;s behind it, and why would a war serve
them?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna sat back, eyes wide. It
couldn&#8217;t be. He had to be wrong.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You were the perfect
pawn,&#8221; Vasher said. &#8220;You reminded the people in the
slums of their true heritage, giving Denth someone to rally behind.
The Court of Gods is a hair&#8217;s breadth away from marching on
your homeland. Not because they hate Idrians, but because they feel
like Idris insurgents have <i>already</i> been attacking
them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shook his head. &#8220;I
couldn&#8217;t believe that you didn&#8217;t realize what you were
doing. I assumed you had to be working with him intentionally to
start the war.&#8221; He eyed her. &#8220;I underestimated your
stupidity. Get dressed. I don&#8217;t know if we have enough time
to undo what you&#8217;ve done, but I intend to try.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The clothing felt strange. The
trousers pulled at her thighs, making her feel like she was
exposed. It was odd not to have the swishing of skirts by her
ankles.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She walked beside Vasher
without comment, head bowed, hair too short to even put into a
braid.&#160; They passed through the Idris slum, and Vivenna had to
fight to keep herself from jumping at every sound, looking over her
shoulder to see if someone were following her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Was that an urchin wanting to
steal the money she&#8217;d begged? Was that a group of thugs,
wishing to sell her to Denth? &#160;Were those shadows grey-eyed
Lifeless, come to attack and slaughter? They passed a waif beside
the road, a young woman of indeterminable age but with a
soot-covered face and bright eyes that watched them. Vivenna could
read the hunger in those eyes. The woman was trying to decide
whether or not to try stealing from them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The sword in Vasher&#8217;s
hand was obviously enough to ward the girl away. Vivenna watched
her scurry down an alleyway, feeling an odd sense of
connection.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Colors,</i> she thought.
<i>Was that really me?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;No. She hadn&#8217;t even been
as capable as that girl. Vivenna had been so naive that she&#8217;d
been kidnapped without knowing it, then worked to start a war
without realizing what she was doing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Didn&#8217;t you ever stop
to think that maybe you were on the wrong side?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She wasn&#8217;t sure what to
believe. She&#8217;d been taken in so quickly by Denth that she was
very hesitant to accept anything this Vasher said. However, she
<i>could</i> see signs that some of what he had told her were
true.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth had always taken her to
meet with the less reputable elements in the city. Not only were
they the ones a mercenary like him would know, but they would be
more likely to prefer the chaos of war. Attacking the Hallandren
supplies wouldn&#8217;t only make it more difficult to administer
the war, it would make the priests more likely to attack. While
they were still strong. The losses would also serve to make them
more angry.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It made chilling sense--sense
it was hard for her to ignore. &#8220;Denth made me think that the
war was inevitable,&#8221; Vivenna whispered as they walked through
the slums. &#8220;My father thinks it&#8217;s inevitable. Everyone
says it&#8217;s going to happen.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They&#8217;re
wrong,&#8221; Vasher said. &#8220;War between Hallandren and Idris
has been close for decades, but never inevitable. Getting this
kingdom to attack requires convincing the Returned--and
they&#8217;re generally too focused on themselves to worry about
something as disruptive as a war. Only an extended effort--first
convincing the priests, then getting them to argue until the Gods
believed them--would be successful.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They fell silent.&#160; Vivenna
stared ahead down the dirty streets with their colorful refuse.
&#8220;I really am useless, aren&#8217;t I?&#8221; she
whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher glanced over at her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;First, my father sent my
sister to marry the God King instead of me. I followed, but I
didn&#8217;t even know what I was doing--Denth took me in on the
very first day I was here. When I finally escaped him, I
couldn&#8217;t make it a month on the street without getting
robbed, beaten, and then captured. Now you claim that I&#8217;ve
single-handedly thrown my people into war.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher snorted.
&#8220;Don&#8217;t give yourself <i>too</i> much credit. Denth has
been working on this war for a long time. From what I hear, he
corrupted the Idris ambassador himself. Plus there are elements in
the Hallandren government--the ones who hired Denth--who want this
conflict to happen.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It seemed so muddy.&#160; What
he said made sense, but Denth had made sense too. She needed to
know more. &#160;&#8220;Do you have any guesses who they might be?
The ones who hired Denth?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher shrugged. &#8220;One of
the Gods, I think--or perhaps a cabal of them. Maybe a group of
priests, working on their own.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They fell silent again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why?&#8221; Vivenna
finally asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;How should I
know?&#8221; Vasher asked. &#8220;I can&#8217;t even figure out
<i>who</i>&#8217;s behind it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; Vivenna
said.&#160; &#8220;Not that. I mean, why are you involved? Why do
you care?&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Because,&#8221; Vasher
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Because why?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher sighed. &#8220;Look,
Princess. I&#8217;m not like Denth; I don&#8217;t have his ability
with words, and I don&#8217;t really like people in the first
place. Don&#8217;t expect me to chat with you. All
right?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna closed her mouth
sharply. <i>If he&#8217;s trying to manipulate me,</i> she thought,
<i>he has a very strange way of doing it.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Their destination turned out to
be a run-down building on the corner of a run-down
intersection.&#160; As they approached, Vivenna paused to wonder
exactly how slums like this one came to exist. Did people build
them cramped and shoddy on purpose, or had these streets once been
a richer section of town that had fallen into disrepair?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher grabbed her arm as she
stood there, then pulled her up to the door, upon which he pounded
on with the hilt of his sword. The door creaked open a second
later, and a pair of nervous eyes glanced out.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Get out of the
way,&#8221; Vasher said, testily shoving the door open the rest of
the way and pulling Vivenna inside. A young man stumbled back,
pressing up against the wall of the hallway and letting Vasher and
Vivenna pass. He closed the door behind them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna felt as if she should
be frightened, or at least angry, at the treatment. However, after
what she had been through, it just didn&#8217;t seem like much.
Vasher let go of her and thumped his way down a set of stairs.
Vivenna followed more carefully, the dark stairwell reminding her
of the cellar in Denth&#8217;s hideout. She shivered, and might
have paused, save for the fact that the young man was following
behind.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;At the bottom, fortunately, the
similarities between cellars ended. This one had a wooden floor and
walls. A rug sat in the middle of the room and a group of men sat
on the ground. A couple them rose as Vasher rounded the stairs.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Vasher!&#8221; one
said.&#160; &#8220;Welcome. Do you want something to
drink?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The men glanced uncomfortably
at each other as Vasher tossed his sword toward the side of the
room. It hit with a clank, skidding on the wood. Then he reached
back and pulled Vivenna forward.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Hair,&#8221; he
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She hesitated. He was using her
just like Denth had. Yet, rather than make him angry, she obliged,
changing the color of her hair. The men watched with awe, then
several of them bowed their heads. &#8220;Princess,&#8221; one
whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Tell them you
don&#8217;t want them to go to war,&#8221; Vasher said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t,&#8221;
she said honestly. &#8220;I have never wanted my people to fight
Hallandren. They would lose, almost certainly.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The men turned to Vasher.
&#8220;But she was working with the slum lords. Why did she change
her mind?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher looked at her.&#160;
&#8220;Well?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Why did she change her mind?
<i>Had</i> she changed her mind? It was all to quick.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I. . .&#8221; she
said.&#160; &#8220;I&#8217;m sorry. I. . .didn&#8217;t realize.
I&#8217;ve <i>never</i> wanted war. I thought it was inevitable,
and so I tried to plan for it. I might have been manipulated,
though.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher nodded, then pushed her
aside. He left her and joined the men as they sat back on the
rug.&#160; Vivenna remained where she was. She wrapped her hands
around herself, feeling the unfamiliar cloth of the tunic and
coat.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>These men are Idrians,</i>
she realized, listening to their accents. <i>And now they&#8217;ve
seen me, their princess, wearing a man&#8217;s clothing. How is it
that I can still care about such things, considering everything
else that is happening?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;All right,&#8221; Vasher
said, squatting. &#8220;What are you doing to stop this?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Wait,&#8221; one of the
men said. &#8220;You expect that to change our minds? A few words
from the princess, and we&#8217;re supposed to believe everything
you&#8217;ve been telling us?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;If Hallandren goes to
war, you&#8217;re dead,&#8221; Vasher snapped. &#8220;Can&#8217;t
you see that? What do you think will happen to the Idrians in these
slums? You think things are bad now, wait until you&#8217;re seen
as sympathizers with the enemy.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We know that,
Vasher,&#8221; another said. &#8220;But what do you expect us to
do? Submit to Hallandren treatment of us? Cave in and worship their
indolent gods?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t really
care what you do,&#8221; Vasher said, &#8220;as long as it
doesn&#8217;t involve threatening the security of the Hallandren
government.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Maybe we should just
admit that war is coming and fight,&#8221; another said.
&#8220;Maybe the slum lords are right. Maybe the best thing to do
is hope that Idris wins.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They hate us,&#8221;
another of them said, a man in his twenties with anger in his eyes.
&#8220;They treat us worse than they do the statues in their
streets! We&#8217;re less than Lifeless, to them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I know that anger,</i>
Vivenna realized. <i>I felt it. Feel it still. Anger at
Hallandren.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man&#8217;s words rang
hollow to her now. The truth was, she hadn&#8217;t really felt any
ire from the Hallandren people. If anything, she&#8217;d felt
indifference. She was just another body on the street to them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Perhaps that&#8217;s why she
hated them. She&#8217;d worked all of her life to become something
important for them--she&#8217;d been dominated by the beast that
was Hallandren and its God King.&#160; And then, in the end, the
city and its people had simply ignored her. She didn&#8217;t matter
to them. And that was infuriating.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Too much has happened
already,&#8221; one of the older men was saying. &#8220;The people
are angry. We can&#8217;t stop the riots, Vasher. Not after that
slaughter a few weeks back.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher pounded the floor with a
fist. &#8220;That&#8217;s what they want! Can&#8217;t you fool see
that you&#8217;re giving your enemies perfect scapegoats? Those
Lifeless that attacked the slum weren&#8217;t given their orders by
the government. Someone slipped a few broken Lifeless into the
group with orders to kill so that the things would turn
bad!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>What?</i> Vivenna
thought.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The Hallandren theocracy
is a bulky thing laden with bureaucratic foolishness,&#8221; Vasher
said.&#160; &#8220;It never moves unless someone prompts it! If we
have riots in the street, that will be just what the war faction
needs.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I could help him,</i>
Vivenna thought, watching the reactions of the Idrians. She knew
them while Vasher obviously didn&#8217;t. He made good arguments,
but he needed more. He needed credibility, more than simply tossing
her out had gained him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She could help. But should
she?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna didn&#8217;t know what
to think anymore. If Vasher was right, she&#8217;d been manipulated
and played the entire time she&#8217;d been with Denth. She knew,
at least, that Denth had been lying to her. That she&#8217;d
discovered on her own. But what was to say that Vasher wasn&#8217;t
doing the same thing?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Did she want war? No, of course
she didn&#8217;t. Particularly not a war Idris would have a very
hard time surviving, let alone winning. Vivenna had worked so hard
to undermine Hallandren&#8217;s ability to wage war. Why
hadn&#8217;t she ever considered trying to head it off.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I did</i>, she realized.
<i>That was my original plan when I was back in Idris. I&#8217;d
intended to talk the God King out of war when I became his
bride.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She&#8217;d given up on that
plan. No, she&#8217;d been manipulated into giving up on it. Either
by her father&#8217;s sense of inevitability or by Denth&#8217;s
subtlety, it didn&#8217;t really matter.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her initial instinct had been
to prevent the conflict. That was the best way to protect Idris;
that was--she realized--also the best way to protect Siri.
She&#8217;d practically given up on saving her sister, focusing on
her own hates and arrogance instead.
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160; &#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Stopping the war wouldn&#8217;t
protect Siri from being abused by the God King. But it would
probably keep her from being used as a pawn or a hostage. It would
save her life.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That was enough for Vivenna.
It&#8217;s what she should have been focused on all along: save
Idris, save Siri.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s too
late,&#8221; one of the men said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; Vivenna
said.&#160; &#8220;Please.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The men in the circle paused,
looking over at her. She walked back to the circle then knelt
before them. &#8220;Please do not say such things.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But princess,&#8221; one
of the men said, &#8220;what can we do? The slum lords rile the
people to anger. We have no power compared to them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You must have some
influence,&#8221; she said. &#8220;You seem like men of
wisdom.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We&#8217;re fathers and
workers,&#8221; another said. &#8220;We have no riches.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But people listen to
you?&#8221; she asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Some do.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then tell them that
there are more options,&#8221; Vivenna said, bowing her head.
&#8220;Tell them to be stronger than I was. Te Idrians here in the
slums--I&#8217;ve seen their strength.&#160; If you tell them that
they&#8217;re being used, maybe they can avoid being
used.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The men fell
silent.&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t know if
everything this man says is true,&#8221; she said, nodding to
Vasher. &#8220;But I do know that Idris will not win this war. We
should be doing everything we can to slow a conflict, not to
encourage one.&#8221; She felt a tear on her cheek, and her hair
had grown a pale white. &#8220;You can see. I. . .no longer have
the control a princess and follower of Austre should show. I am a
shame to you, but please don&#8217;t let my failure doom you. The
Hallandrens don&#8217;t hate us. They barely even notice us.&#160;
I know this is frustrating, but if you <i>make</i> them notice you
by rioting and destroying, they will only be shaken into anger
against our homeland.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So we should just roll
over?&#8221; the younger man asked. &#8220;Let them step on us?
What does it matter if they do it unintentionally? We still get
smashed.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; Vivenna
said.&#160; &#8220;There must be a better way. An Idrian is their
queen, now. Perhaps, if we give them time, they will get over their
prejudice. We <i>must</i> focus our energies now on keeping them
from attacking!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your words make sense,
Princess,&#8221; said one of the elder men in the room.
&#8220;But--and forgive me for my ostentation--we here find it
difficult to care about Idris much anymore. It has abandoned us and
we can&#8217;t really go back.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We <i>are</i>
Idrians,&#8221; one of the others said. &#8220;But. . .well, our
families here are more important.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A month ago, Vivenna would have
been offended by this talk. A short time on the streets, however,
had shown a little of what desperation could do to a person. What
was Idris to them if their families starved? She could not blame
them for their attitudes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You think things will
fare better for you here if Idris is conquered?&#8221; Vasher
asked. &#8220;If there&#8217;s war, you&#8217;ll be treated even
<i>worse</i> than you are now.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There <i>are</i> other
options,&#8221; Vivenna said. &#8220;I know of your plight here
now. If I return to my father and explain it, perhaps we can work
out a way to return you to Idris.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Return us to
Idris?&#8221; one of the men said. &#8220;My family has been here
in Hallandren now for fifty years!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, but as long as the
King of Idris lives,&#8221; Vivenna said, &#8220;you have an ally.
We can work with diplomacy to make things better for you
here.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The king doesn&#8217;t
care about us,&#8221; another said softly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I care,&#8221; Vivenna
said.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And she did. She found it
strange, but a piece of her felt more of a kinship with the Idrians
in the city than she did with those she had left. She
understood.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We must find a way to
bring attention to your hardships without bringing hatred as
well,&#8221; she said.&#160; &#8220; We will find a way. As I said,
my sister is married to the God King himself. If we can get her
attention, perhaps he can be persuaded to improve the slums. Not
because he&#8217;s afraid of the violence our people might cause,
but because of the pity he feels for their situation.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She continued to kneel, feeling
ashamed before these men. Ashamed to be crying, to be seen in the
immodest clothing and with ragged, short hair. Ashamed to have
failed them so soundly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>How could I fail so
easily?</i> she thought. <i>I, who was supposed to be in control.
How could I &#160;be so angry that I ignored my people&#8217;s
needs just because I wanted to see Hallandren pay?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;She is sincere,&#8221;
one of the men finally said. &#8220;I will give her
that.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t
know,&#8221; said another. &#8220;I still feel it&#8217;s too
late.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;If that&#8217;s the
case,&#8221; Vivenna said, still looking at the floor, &#8220;what
do you have to lose? Think of the lives you could save. I promise.
Idris will not forget you any longer.&#160; If you make peace with
Hallandren, I will make certain that you are seen as heroes back in
our homeland.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Heroes, eh?&#8221; one
of them said. &#8220;It would be nice to be known as a hero, rather
than the one who left the highlands to live in brazen
Hallandren.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Please,&#8221; Vivenna
whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;ll see what I
can do,&#8221; one of the men said, standing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Several of the others voiced
agreement. They stood as well, shaking hands with Vasher. Vivenna
remained kneeling as they left.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Eventually, the room was empty
save for her and Vasher. He sat down across from her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Thanks,&#8221; he
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I didn&#8217;t do it for
you,&#8221; she whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Get up,&#8221; he
said.&#160; &#8220;Let&#8217;s go. I want to meet with someone
else.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I. . . .&#8221; she sat
down on the rug, trying to make sense of her feelings. &#8220;Why
should I do as you tell me? How do I know that you&#8217;re not
just using me? Lying to me. Like Denth did.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You don&#8217;t
know,&#8221; Vasher said, recovering his sword from the
corner.&#160; &#8220;You&#8217;ll just have to do what I
say..&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Am I a prisoner
then?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He glanced at her.&#160; Then
he walked over, squatting. &#8220;Look,&#8221; he said. &#8220;But
we both agree that war is bad for Idris. I&#8217;m not going to
take you on raids or make you meet with slum lords. All you have to
do is tell people you don&#8217;t want a war.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And if I&#8217;m not
willing to do that?&#8221; she said. &#8220;Will you force
me?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He watched her for a moment,
then swore under his breath, standing. He pulled out a bag of
something and tossed it at her. It clinked as it hit her chest then
fell to the floor.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Go,&#8221; he said.
&#8220;Get back to Idris. I&#8217;ll do it without you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She just continued to sit,
staring. He began to walk away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Denth used me,&#8221; he
found herself whispering. &#8220;And the worse part is, I still
feel like this should all be just a misunderstanding. I feel that
he&#8217;s really my friend, and that I should go to him and find
out why he did what he did. Maybe we are all just
confused.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She closed her eyes, resting
her head on her knees. &#8220;But then I remember the things I saw
him do. My friend Parlin is dead. Killed by one of Denth&#8217;s
men. &#160;I feel so confused.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The room fell silent.
&#8220;You&#8217;re not the first one he&#8217;s taken in,
princess,&#8221; Vasher finally said. &#8220;Denth. . .he&#8217;s a
careful one. A man like him can be evil to the core, but if he is
charismatic and amusing, people will listen to him. They&#8217;ll
even like him.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She looked up, blinking teary
eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher turned away.&#160;
&#8220;Me,&#8221; he said. &#8220;I&#8217;m not like that. I have
trouble talking. I get frustrated. I snap at people. Doesn&#8217;t
make me very popular. But I promise you that I won&#8217;t lie to
you.&#8221; He met her eyes. &#8220;I want to stop this war.&#160;
That&#8217;s all that really matters to me, right now. I promise
you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She wasn&#8217;t sure if she
believed him. Yet, she found herself wanting to. <i>Idiot,</i> she
thought. <i>You&#8217;re just going to get taken in again.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She hadn&#8217;t proven herself
a very good judge of character. Still, she didn&#8217;t pick up the
bag of coins.&#160; &#8220;I am willing to help. Assuming it
doesn&#8217;t involve anything more than telling others that I wish
to keep Idris from harm.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Good enough.<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She hesitated. &#8220;Do you
really think we can stop it. The war?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shrugged. &#8220;Maybe.
Assuming I can keep myself from beating the Colors out of all these
Idrians for acting like idiots.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>A pacifist with
temper-control issues,</i> she thought ruefully. <i>What a
combination. A little like a devout Idrian princess who holds
enough BioChromatic Breath to populate a small village.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There are more places
like this,&#8221; Vasher said. &#8220;I would show you to the
people there.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;All right,&#8221; she
said, trying not to look at the blade as she stood. It had a
strange ability to make her feel sick, even still, just by looking
at it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher nodded.
&#160;&#8220;There won&#8217;t be many people at each meeting. I
don&#8217;t have Denth&#8217;s connections, and I&#8217;m not
friendly with important people. The ones I know are workers.
We&#8217;ll have to go visit the dye vats, perhaps even some of the
fields.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I understand,&#8221; she
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Without further comment, Vasher
picked up his bag of coins, then led her out onto the street.
<i>And so,</i> she thought, <i>I begin again.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I can only hope that this
time, I&#8217;m on the right side.</i><br clear="all" style=
'page-break-before: always' /></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Forty-Four</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri watched Susebron with
fondness as he ate a third dessert. Their night&#8217;s meal lay
spread out on the table and floor, some dishes completely devoured,
others barely tasted.&#160; That first night when Susebron had
ordered a meal had created a tradition. Now they ordered food every
night--though only after Siri did her act for the listening
priests. Susebron claimed to find it very amusing, though she
noticed the curiosity in his eyes as he watched her.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron had proven to have
quite a sweet tooth now that disapproving priests and their sense
etiquette were gone. &#8220;You should probably watch out,&#8221;
she noted as he finished another pastry. &#8220;If you eat too many
of those, you will gain weight.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He reached for his writing
board. <i>No I won&#8217;t.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes you will,&#8221; she
said, smiling. &#8220;That&#8217;s the way it works.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Not for Gods,</i> he wrote.
<i>My mother explained it. Some men become more bulky if they
exercise a lot and become fat if they eat a lot. That doesn&#8217;t
happen to Returned. We always look the same.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri couldn&#8217;t offer
argument. What did she know of Returned?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Is food in Idris like
this?</i> Susebron wrote.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri smiled. He was always so
curious about her homeland. She could sense a longing in him, the
wish to be free of his palace and see the outside. And yet, he
didn&#8217;t want to be disobedient, even when the ones who made
the rules were obviously harsh.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I really need to work on
corrupting you some more,&#8221; she noted.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He paused. <i>What does that
have to do with food?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Nothing,&#8221; she
said.&#160; &#8220;But it&#8217;s true nonetheless. You&#8217;re
far too good a person, Susebron.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Sarcasm?</i> he wrote. <i>I
certainly hope that it is.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Only half,&#8221; she
said, laying down on her stomach and watching him across their
impromptu picnic settings.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Half sarcasm?</i> He wrote.
<i>Is this something new?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; she said,
sighing. &#8220;There is truth sometimes even in sarcasm. I
don&#8217;t <i>really</i> want to corrupt you, but I do think that
you&#8217;re just too obedient. You need to be a little more
reckless. Impulsive.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>It&#8217;s hard to be
impulsive when you are locked in a palace surrounded by hundreds of
servants,</i> he wrote.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Good point.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>However, I have been
thinking about the things which you have said. Please don&#8217;t
be mad at me.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri perked up, noting the
embarrassment in his expression. &#8220;All right. What did you
do?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I talked to my priests,</i>
he said. <i>With the Artisan&#8217;s Script.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri felt a moment of panic.
&#8220;You told them about us?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>No, No,</i> he wrote
quickly. <i>I did tell them I was worried about having a child. I
asked why my father died right after he had a child.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri frowned. Part of her
wished that he&#8217;d let her handle such negotiations. However,
she said nothing. She didn&#8217;t want to keep him pinned down
like his priests did. His life that was being threatened--he
deserved the chance to work on the problem too.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Good,&#8221; she
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You&#8217;re not
mad?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shrugged. &#8220;I was just
telling you to be more impulsive! I can&#8217;t really complain.
What did they say?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He erased, then continued.
<i>They told me not to worry. They said everything would be all
right. So I asked them again, and again they gave me a vague
answer.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri nodded slowly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>It hurts me to write this,
but I&#8217;m beginning to think that you are right. I&#8217;ve
noticed that my guards and Awakeners are staying particularly close
lately. We even skipped going to the court of judgment
yesterday.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s a bad
sign,&#8221; she agreed. &#8220;I haven&#8217;t had much luck
finding out what is going to happen.&#160; I&#8217;ve ordered in
three other storytellers but none of them had information any
better than what Hoid gave me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You still think it has to do
with the Breath I hold?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She nodded. &#8220;Remember
what I said about my conversation with Tridees? He talked about
that Breath of yours with reverence. To him, it&#8217;s something
to be passed from generation to generation, like a family
tapestry.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>In one of the
children&#8217;s stories in my book,</i> he wrote, <i>there is a
magic sword. A young boy is given it by his grandfather, and it
turns out the sword was a heirloom--the symbol of kinghood in the
land.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What are you
saying?&#8221; she asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Perhaps the entire monarchy
of Hallandren is nothing more than a way to guard the Breath. The
only way to store Breath is inside of a person. So they created a
monarchy with line of God Kings who could take the treasure and
pass it from father to son.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri nodded slowly.&#160;
&#8220;That would mean that the God King is more of a placeholder
than anything else. A sheath for a magic weapon.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Exactly,</i> Susebron wrote,
hand moving quickly. <i>They had to make my family kings because of
how much Breath was in that treasure. And they had to give it to a
Returned--otherwise their king and their Gods might have been in
conflict for power.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Perhaps. It seems
convenient that the God King always bears a stillborn son who
becomes Returned. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She trailed off.&#160; Susebron
saw it too.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Unless the next God King
isn&#8217;t really the son of the current one,</i> he wrote, hand
shaking slightly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Austre!&#8221; Siri
said.&#160; &#8220;God of Colors! That&#8217;s it. Somewhere in the
kingdom, a baby died and Returned.&#160; That&#8217;s why
it&#8217;s so urgent that I get pregnant! They already have the
next God King, now they just need to keep up the farce. They marry
me to you, hope for a child as quickly as possible, then switch the
baby for the Returned one.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Then they kill me and
somehow take my Breaths away,</i> he wrote. <i>And give it to this
child, who can become the next God King.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri sat back, frowning.
&#8220;But if any of that is true, then that asks another question.
Why even bother changing God Kings? Why not just leave one man
holding the Breath?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I don&#8217;t know,</i>
Susebron wrote. <i>It doesn&#8217;t seem to make sense, does it?
Maybe they are worried about keeping a single God King captive that
long. Children are easier to control, perhaps?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;If that&#8217;s the
case, they would want to change <i>more</i> often,&#8221; Siri
said. &#8220;Some of those God Kings lasted centuries. Of course,
it could just have to do with how rebellious they think their king
is.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I do everything I&#8217;m
supposed to! You just complained that I am too
obedient.</i>&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Compared to me, you
are,&#8221; she said, sitting up and leaning back. &#8220;Maybe
from their viewpoint, you&#8217;re a wildman. After all, you did
hide that book your mother gave you, and then you learned to write.
Perhaps they know you well enough to realize that you weren&#8217;t
going to stay docile. So now that they have an opportunity to
replace you, they&#8217;re intending to take it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Maybe,</i> he
wrote.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri thought through their
conclusions again. Looked at critically, she could see that they
were just speculations. Yet, everyone said that the other Returned
couldn&#8217;t have children, and so why would the God King be
different? That might just be a means of obfuscating the fact that
they were bringing in a new person to be God King when they found
one.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That still didn&#8217;t answer
the most important question. What were they going to do to Susebron
to get his Breaths away from him?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron leaned back, staring
up at the dark ceiling. Siri watched him, noting the look of
sadness in his eyes. &#8220;What?&#8221; she asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He just shook his head.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Please? What is
it?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He sat for a moment, then
looked down, writing. <i>If what you say is true, then the woman
who raised me was not my mother. I would have been born to someone
random out in the countryside. The priests would have taken me once
I returned, then raised me in the palace as the &#8216;son&#8217;
of the God King they&#8217;d just killed.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Seeing him in pain made her
insides twist. She moved around the blanket, sitting beside him,
putting her arms around him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>She&#8217;s the only person
to have shown me real kindness in my life,</i> he wrote. <i>The
priests, they revere me and care for me--or, at least, I assumed
that they did. However, they never really loved me. Only my mother
did that. And now I&#8217;m not sure I even know who she
is.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;If she raised you,
she&#8217;s your mother,&#8221; Siri said. &#8220;It doesn&#8217;t
matter who gave birth to you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He didn&#8217;t respond to
that.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Maybe she was your real
mother,&#8221; Siri said. &#8220;If they were going to bring you to
the palace and raise you in secret, they might as well bring your
mother too. Who better to care for you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He nodded, then scribbled on
the board with one hand--the other around Siri&#8217;s waist.
<i>Perhaps you are right. Though it now seems suspicious to me that
she would die as she did. She was one of the few who could have
told me the truth.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;This seemed to make him even
more sad, and Siri pulled him close, laying her head on his
chest.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Please,</i> he wrote.
<i>Tell me of your family.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My parents were often
frustrated with me,&#8221; Siri said. &#8220;But they did love me.
<i>Do</i> love me.&#160; They just wanted me to do what they
thought was right. And. . .well, the more time I spend in
Hallandren, the more I wish I would have listened to them, at least
a little bit.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ridger was right above
me. I was always getting him into trouble. He was the heir, and I
had him <i>thoroughly</i> corrupted, at least until he got old
enough to realize his duties. He&#8217;s a little like you. Very
kind hearted, always trying to do what is right. He didn&#8217;t
eat as many sweets, though.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron smiled faintly,
squeezing her shoulder.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then there was
Fafen.&#160; I didn&#8217;t really know her that well. She joined a
monastery when I was still quite young--and I was glad. It&#8217;s
seen as a duty in Idris to provide at least one child for the
monasteries. They&#8217;re the ones who grow the food for the poor
and take care of things that need to be done around the city.
Pruning, washing, painting. Anything to be of service.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He reached over. <i>A little
like a king,</i> he wrote. <i>Living a life to serve
others.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Sure,&#8221; Siri
said.&#160; &#8220;Only they don&#8217;t get locked up and they can
stop doing it, if they want.&#160; Either way, I&#8217;m glad it
was Fafen and not me. I would have gone <i>crazy</i> living as a
monk. They have to be pious all the time, and are supposed to be
the least ostentatious in the city.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Not a good match for your
hair,</i> he wrote.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Definitely,&#8221; she
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Though,</i> he wrote,
frowning slightly. <i>It&#8217;s stopped changing colors as often
lately.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;ve had to learn
to control it better,&#8221; Siri said with a grimace.
&#8220;People can read me too easily by it. Here.&#8221; She
changed it from black to yellow, and he smiled, running his fingers
through its lengthy locks.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;After Fafen,&#8221; Siri
said, &#8220;there&#8217;s just the eldest, Vivenna. She&#8217;s
the one you were supposed to marry. she spent her entire life
preparing to move to Hallandren.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>She must hate me,</i>
Susebron wrote. <i>Growing up knowing she would have to leave her
family and live with a man she didn&#8217;t know.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Nonsense,&#8221; Siri
said.&#160; &#8220;Vivenna looked forward to it. I don&#8217;t
think she <i>can</i> feel hatred. She was always just calm and
careful and perfect.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron frowned.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I sound bitter,
don&#8217;t it?&#8221; Siri said, sighing. &#8220;I don&#8217;t
mean to. I really do love Vivenna. She was always there, watching
out for me. But, it seemed to me that she made too many efforts to
cover up for me. My big sister, pulling me out of trouble, scolding
me calmly, then seeing that I wasn&#8217;t punished as much as I
should have been.&#8221; She hesitated. &#8220;They&#8217;re all
probably back home right now, worried sick about me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You sound like you&#8217;re
worried about them,</i> he wrote.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I am,&#8221; she
said.&#160; &#8220;I&#8217;ve been listening to the priests argue
in the Court. It. . .doesn&#8217;t sound good, Seb. There are a lot
of Idrians in the city and they&#8217;re being very reckless. The
city guard was forced to send troops into one of the slums a few
weeks back. That isn&#8217;t helping tensions between our
countries.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron didn&#8217;t write a
response, but instead wrapped his arm around her again, pulling her
close. It felt good to be held against him. Very good.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;After a few minutes, he put his
arm away and wrote again, awkwardly erasing first. <i>I was wrong,
you know.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;About what?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>About one of the things I
said earlier. I wrote that my mother was the only person to ever
show me love and kindness. That&#8217;s not true. There&#8217;s
been another.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He trailed off with his
writing, looking down at her. Then he glanced at the board again.
<i>You didn&#8217;t have to show me kindness,</i> he wrote. <i>You
could have hated me for taking you from your family and your
homeland. Instead, you taught me to read, befriended me. Loved
me.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He stared at her. She stared at
him. Then, hesitant, he leaned down and kissed her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Oh, dear. . . .</i> Siri
thought, a dozen objections popping into her head. She found it
difficult to move, to resist, or to do anything.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Anything other than kiss him
back.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She felt hot. She knew that
they needed to stop, lest the priesthood get exactly what they were
waiting for. She <i>understood</i> all of these things. Yet those
objections began to seem less and less rational as she kissed him,
as her breathing grew more hurried.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He paused, obviously uncertain
what to do next. Siri looked up at him, breathing heaver, then
pulled him down to kiss him again, feeling her hair bleed to a
deep, passionate red.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;At that point, she stopped
caring about anything else. Susebron didn&#8217;t know what to do.
But she did. <i>I really am too impulsive,</i> she thought as she
pulled off her shift. <i>I need to get better at that.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Some other time.</i></p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Forty-Five</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That night, Lightsong dreamed
of T&#8217;Telir burning. Of the God King dead and of soldiers in
the streets. Of Lifeless killing people in colorful clothing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And of a black sword.</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Forty-Six</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna choked down her meal.
The dried meat tasted strongly of fish, but she had learned that by
plugging her nose, she could ignore much of the flavor. She ate
every bite, then washed the taste down with a few mouthfuls of warm
boiled water.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She was alone in the room. It
was a small chamber built onto the side of a building in the
slums.&#160; Vasher had paid a few coins for a day in it, though he
wasn&#8217;t there at the moment. He&#8217;d rushed off to see to
something.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She leaned back, food consumed,
closing her eyes. She&#8217;d reached the point where she was so
exhausted that she actually found it difficult to sleep. The fact
that the room was so small didn&#8217;t help. She couldn&#8217;t
even stretch out all the way.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher hadn&#8217;t been
exaggerating when he&#8217;d said that their work would be
rigorous. Stop after stop--each meeting only attended by a few
people--she spoke with the Idrians, consoling them, begging them
not to prompt Hallandren to war. So far as she could tell, Vasher
seemed to be being honest with her. Of course, she had thought that
about Denth, too.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She did what she could. She
worried that she was being manipulated, that she would make
mistakes again. She didn&#8217;t want to help or trust a man who
might just be another murderer. However, she felt different about
these visits. There were no restaurants like there had been with
Denth. No dinners with men in fine clothing and guards. Just group
after group of tired, working-class men and women. Many of them
weren&#8217;t rebellious and a large number of them didn&#8217;t
even live in the slums. But they were part of the Idrian community
in T&#8217;Telir, and they had an effect on how their friends and
family felt.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She liked them. Empathized with
them. She felt far better about her work now than she had about her
work with Denth. She had decided to trust those instincts. That was
her decision, and that decision meant helping Vasher, for now.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher didn&#8217;t ask her if
she wanted to continue. He simply led her from location to
location, expecting her to keep up. And so she did. Meeting with
the people was emotionally draining, but she did it anyway,
pleading with them, admitting her fault. As the days had
progressed, she&#8217;d grown more and more certain that she
<i>had</i> been duped into helping fuel the war. She could see it
in the way the Idrians--even the good natured ones--had been riled
against Hallandren in the recent months.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She wasn&#8217;t certain if she
could fix what she had done. But she was willing to try. This
determination seemed to gain her a bit of respect from Vasher. It
was much more reluctantly given than Denth&#8217;s respect had
been.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Denth was fooling me the
entire time.</i> It was still hard to remember that fact. Part of
her didn&#8217;t want to. &#160;&#160;She leaned forward, staring
at the bland wall in front of her in the box-like room. She
shivered. It was a good thing that she&#8217;d been working herself
so hard lately. It kept her from thinking about things.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Discomforting things.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Who was she? How did she define
herself now that everything she&#8217;d been, and everything
she&#8217;d tried, had collapsed around her? She couldn&#8217;t be
Vivenna the confident princess anymore. That person was dead, left
behind in that cellar with Parlin&#8217;s bloody corpse. Her
confidence had come from naivet&#233;. She hadn&#8217;t known how
helpless she was, and so she&#8217;d been able to act secure and in
control.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Now she knew. She knew how
easily she had been played. She knew the cost of ignorance, and she
understood what it was like to glimpse poverty.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Yet, she also couldn&#8217;t be
<i>that</i> woman--the waif of the streets, the thief, the beaten
down wretch. That wasn&#8217;t her. She felt as if those weeks had
been a dream, brought on by the stress and trauma of her betrayal,
fueled by becoming a Drab and being suffocated by disease. That
wasn&#8217;t her. To pretend that it was would be to parody,
somehow, those who truly lived on the streets. The people
she&#8217;d hidden amongst and tried to imitate.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Where did that leave her? Was
she the penitent, quiet princess who knelt with bowed head,
pleading with the peasants to avoid war? This, too, was something
of an act. She really did feel sorry. However, she was using her
stripped pride as a tool to manipulate. That wasn&#8217;t her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Who was she?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She stood up, feeling cramped
in the tiny room, and pushed open the door. The neighborhood
outside wasn&#8217;t quite a slum, but it wasn&#8217;t rich either.
It was simply a place where people lived. There were enough colors
along to street to be welcoming, but the buildings were small and
held a number of families each.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She walked along the street,
careful not to stray too far from the room Vasher had rented. She
passed trees, admiring their blooms.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Who was she really?&#160; What
was left, when one stripped away the princess and the hatred of
Hallandren? She was determined. That part of her, she liked.
She&#8217;d forced herself to become the woman she needed to be in
order to marry the God King.&#160; She&#8217;d worked hard,
sacrificing, to obtain her goal.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She was also a hypocrite. Now
she knew what it was to be truly humble, without ostentation at
all. Compared to that, her former life seemed more loud and
arrogant than any colorful skirt or shirt.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She did believe in
Austre.&#160; She loved the teachings of the Five Visions.
Humility. Sacrifice. Seeing another&#8217;s problems before your
own. Yet, she was beginning to think that she--along with many
others--had taken this view too far, letting her desire to seem
humble become a form of arrogance itself. It seemed to her that
when her faith had become about clothing instead of people, it had
taken a wrong turn.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She wanted to learn to Awaken.
Why? What did that say about her? That she was willing to accept a
tool her religion rejected, just because it would make her
powerful?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;No, that wasn&#8217;t it. At
least, she hoped that wasn&#8217;t it. Looking back on her recent
life, she felt frustrated at how helpless she had been so much of
the time.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And <i>that</i> felt like part
of who she really was. The woman who would do anything to make
certain she wasn&#8217;t helpless. That was why she&#8217;d trained
so hard with the tutors in Idris. That was also why she wanted to
learn how to Awaken. She wanted to hold as much information as she
could. She wanted to be prepared as for the problems that might
come at her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She wanted to be capable. That
might be arrogant, but it was the truth. She wanted to learn
everything she could about how to survive in the world. The most
humiliating aspect of her time in T&#8217;Telir was her ignorance.
She wouldn&#8217;t make that mistake again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She nodded to
herself.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Time to practice, then,</i>
she thought, returning to the room. Inside, she pulled out a piece
of rope--the one that Vasher had used to tie her up, the first
thing that she had Awakened. She&#8217;d since retrieved the Breath
from it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She went back outside, holding
the rope between her fingers, twisting it, thinking. <i>The
Commands that Denth taught me were simple phrases. Hold things.
Protect me.</i> He&#8217;d implied that the intent was important.
When she&#8217;d Awakened her bonds, she&#8217;d made them move as
if part of her body. It was more than just the Command. The Command
brought the life, but the intent--the instructions from her
mind--brought focus.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She stopped beside a large tree
with thin, blossom-laden branches that drooped toward the ground.
She stood beside a branch, touched the bark of the tree&#8217;s
trunk itself to use its color.&#160; She held out the rope to the
branch. &#8220;Hold things,&#8221; she Commanded, reflexively
letting out some of her Breath. She felt a moment of panic as her
sense of the world dimmed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The rope twitched.&#160;
However, instead of drawing color from the tree, the Awakening
pulled color from her tunic. The garment bled grey, and the rope
moved, wrapping like a snake around the branch. Wood cracked
slightly as the rope pulled tight. However, the other end of the
rope twisted in an odd pattern, writhing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna watched, frowning,
until she figured out what was happening. The rope was twisting
around her hand, trying to hold it as well.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Stop,&#8221; Vivenna
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Nothing happened. It continued
to pull tight.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your Breath to
mine,&#8221; she Commanded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The rope stopped twisting and
her Breath returned. She shook the rope free. <i>All right,</i> she
thought. &#8216;<i>Hold things&#8217; works, but it&#8217;s not
very specific. It will wrap around my fingers as well as the thing
I want it to tie up. What if I tried something else?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Hold that branch,&#8221;
she Commanded. Again, Breath left her. More of it this time. Her
trousers drained of color, and the rope end twisted, wrapping
around the branch. The rest of it remained still.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She smiled in satisfaction.
<i>So, the more complicated the command, the more Breath it
requires.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She took back her Breath. As
Vasher had indicated, doing so didn&#8217;t cause her senses to be
shocked, for it was a restoration back to a normal state for her.
If she&#8217;d gone several days without that Breath, she&#8217;d
have been overwhelmed by recovering its power. A little like taking
a first bite of something very flavorful.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She eyed her clothing, which
was now completely grey. Out of curiosity, she tried Awakening the
rope again. Nothing happened. She picked up a stick, then awakened
the rope again.&#160; It worked this time, the stick bleeding of
color, though it took a LOT more breath. Perhaps this was because
the since the stick wasn&#8217;t very colorful.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She discarded it and fetched a
few of Vasher&#8217;s colored handkerchiefs from the room. She
walked back to the tree. <i>Now what?</i> she thought. Could she
put the Breath into the rope now, then command it to hold something
later? How would she even phrase that?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Hold things that I tell
you to hold,&#8221; she Commanded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Nothing happened.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Hold that branch when I
tell you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Again, nothing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Hold whatever I
say.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Nothing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A voice came from behind.
&#8220;Tell it to &#8216;Hold when thrown.&#8217;&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna jumped, spinning.
Vasher stood behind her, Nightblood held before him, point down. He
had his pack over his shoulder.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna flushed, glancing back
at the rope. &#8220;Hold when thrown,&#8221; she said, using a
handkerchief for color.&#160; The rope remained limp. So she tossed
it to the side, hitting one of the hanging tree branches.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The rope immediately twisted
about, locking the branches together and holding them tightly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s
useful,&#8221; Vivenna said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher raised an eyebrow.
&#8220;Perhaps. Dangerous though.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Get the rope
back.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna paused, realizing that
the rope had twisted around branches that were too high for her to
reach. She hopped up, trying to grab it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I prefer to use a longer
rope,&#8221; Vasher said, raising Nightblood by the blade and using
its hooked crossguard to pull the branches down. &#8220;If you
always keep ahold of one end, then you don&#8217;t have to worry
about it getting taken from you. Plus, you can Awaken when you need
to, rather than leaving a bunch of Breath locked into a rope that
you may or may not need.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna nodded, recovering her
Breath from the rope.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Come on,&#8221; he said,
walking back toward the room. &#8220;You&#8217;ve obviously made
enough of a spectacle for one day.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna followed, noticing that
several people on the street had stopped to watch her. &#8220;How
did they notice?&#8221; she asked. &#8220;I wasn&#8217;t
<i>that</i> obvious about what I was doing.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher snorted. &#8220;And how
many people in T&#8217;Telir walk around in grey
clothing?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna blushed as she followed
Vasher into the cramped room. He set down his pack then leaned
Nightblood against one wall. Vivenna eyed the sword. She still
wasn&#8217;t certain what to make of the weapon. She felt a little
nauseous every time she looked at it, and the memory of how
violently she&#8217;d felt sick when touching it was still fresh
inside of her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Plus there had been that voice
in her head. Had she really heard it? Vasher had been
characteristically tight-lipped when she&#8217;d asked about it,
rebuffing her questions.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Aren&#8217;t you an
Idrian?&#8221; Vasher asked, drawing her attention as he settled
down.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Last I checked,&#8221;
she replied.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You seem uncomfortably
fascinated with Awakening for a follower of Austre.&#8221; He spoke
with eyes closed as he rested his head back against the door.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m not a very
good Idrian,&#8221; she said, sitting down. &#8220;Not anymore. I
might as well learn to use what I have.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher nodded. &#8220;Good
enough. I&#8217;ve never really understood why Austrism suddenly
turned is back on Awakening.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Suddenly?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He nodded, eyes still closed.
&#8220;Wasn&#8217;t like that before the Manywar.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Really?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course,&#8221; he
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He often spoke that way,
mentioning things that seemed farfetched to her, yet saying them as
if he knew exactly what he was talking about. No conjecture. No
wavering. As if he knew everything. She could see why sometimes it
was hard for him to get along with people.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Anyway,&#8221; Vasher
said, opening his eyes. &#8220;Did you eat all of that
squid?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She nodded. &#8220;Is that what
that was?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; he said,
opening his pack, getting out another dried chunk of meat. He held
it up. &#8220;Want more?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She felt sick. &#8220;No, thank
you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He paused, noticing the look in
her eyes. &#8220;What? Did I give you a bad piece?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shook her head.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221; he
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s
nothing.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He raised an eyebrow.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I said it&#8217;s
nothing.&#8221;&#160; She glanced away. &#8220;I just don&#8217;t
care for fish very much.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You don&#8217;t?&#8221;
he asked.&#160; &#8220;I&#8217;ve been feeding it to you for five
days now.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She nodded silently.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You ate it every
time.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m dependant upon
you for food,&#8221; she said. &#8220;I don&#8217;t intend to
complain about what you give me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He frowned, then took a bite of
squid and began chewing. He still wore his torn, almost-ragged
clothing, but Vivenna had now been around him enough to tell that
he kept it clean. He obviously had the resources to get new
clothing, yet he chose to wear the worn and tattered things
instead.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You aren&#8217;t what I
expected,&#8221; he finally said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I would have
been,&#8221; she said. &#8220;A few weeks ago.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I doubt it,&#8221; he
said, gnawing on his chunk of squid. &#8220;That tenacious spirit
you&#8217;ve got doesn&#8217;t come from a few weeks on the
streets. Neither does that sense of martyrdom.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She met his eyes. &#8220;I want
you to teach me more about Awakening.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shrugged. &#8220;What do you
want to know?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t even know
how to answer that,&#8221; she said. &#8220;Denth taught me a few
Commands, but that was the same day that you took me
captive.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher nodded. They sat silent
for a few minutes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well?&#8221; she finally
asked. &#8220;Are you going to say anything?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m
thinking,&#8221; he said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She raised an eyebrow.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He scowled. &#8220;Awakening is
something I&#8217;ve done for a very, very long time. I always have
trouble trying to explain it. Don&#8217;t rush me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s okay,&#8221;
she said.&#160; &#8220;Take your time.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shot her a glance.&#160;
&#8220;Don&#8217;t patronize me either.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m not
patronizing; I&#8217;m being polite.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well next time, be
polite with less condescension in your voice,&#8221; he said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Condescension?</i> she
thought. <i>I wasn&#8217;t condescending!</i> She eyed him as he
sat, chewing on his dried squid. The more time she spent with him,
the less frightening she found him, but the more frustrating. <i>He
is a dangerous man,</i> she reminded herself. <i>He has left
corpses strewn all over the city, using that sword of his to make
people slaughter each other.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She had trusted Denth too
quickly. She wouldn&#8217;t make the same mistake with Vasher.
Still, there was a better feeling about him, now that she was
coming to know him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Or does he just want me to
think that?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She&#8217;d considered running
from him on several occasions, but had eventually decided that
she&#8217;d be a fool to do so. She could find no fault in his
efforts to stop the war, and his solemn promise in the basement
that first day still stuck with her. She believed him.
Hesitantly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She just intended to keep her
eyes open a little wider from now on.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;All right,&#8221; he
said.&#160; &#8220;I guess this is for the best. I&#8217;m getting
tired of you walking around with that bright aura of yours that you
can&#8217;t even use.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, I think we should
start with theory,&#8221; he said. &#8220;There are four kinds of
BioChromatic entities. The first, and most spectacular, are the
Returned. They&#8217;re called gods here in Hallandren, but
I&#8217;d rather call them Spontaneous Sentient BioChromatic
Manifestations in a Deceased Host. What is odd about them is that
they&#8217;re the only naturally occurring BioChromatic entity,
which is theoretically the explanation for why they can&#8217;t use
or bestow their BioChromatic Investiture.&#160; Of course, the fact
is that <i>every</i> living being is born with a certain
BioChromatic Investiture. This could also explain why Type Ones
retain sentience.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna blinked. That
wasn&#8217;t what she had been expecting.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;re more
interested in Type Two and Type Three entities,&#8221; Vasher
continued. &#8220;Type Two being Mindless Manifestations in a
Deceased Host. They are cheap to make, even with awkward Commands.
This is per the Law of BioChromatic Parallelism: the closer a host
is to a living shape and form, the easier it is to Awaken.
BioChroma is the power of life, and so it seeks patterns of life.
That, however, leads us to another law--the Law of Comparability.
It states that the amount of Breath required to Awaken something
isn&#8217;t necessarily indicative of its power once Awakened. A
piece of cloth cut into a square and a piece of cloth cut into the
shape of a person will take very different amounts of Breath to
Awaken, but will be essentially the same once they have been
Invested.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The explanation for this
is simple. Some people think of Awakening like pouring water into a
cup.&#160; You pour until the cup is filled, and then the object
comes to life. This is a false parallelism. Instead, think of
Awakening like beating down a door. You pound and pound, and some
doors are easier to open than others, but once they&#8217;re open,
they do about the same thing.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He glanced at her.&#160;
&#8220;Understand?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Uh. . . .&#8221; she
said slowly. She&#8217;d spent her youth training with the tutors,
but this was beyond even their methods of teaching.
&#8220;It&#8217;s a little dense.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, do you want to
learn or not?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You asked me if I
understood,</i> she thought. <i>And I answered.</i> However, she
didn&#8217;t voice her objections. Better for him to keep
talking.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Type Two BioChromatic
Entities,&#8221; he said, &#8220;are what people in Hallandren call
Lifeless. They are, in a way, like Type One entities--only with
some very large differences. They only require a few Breaths to
Awaken--anywhere between one and fifty, depending on the Commands
used--and they feed off of their own color when being
Invested.&#160; They don&#8217;t present an aura when Awakened, but
the Breath sustains them, keeping them from needing to eat. They
can die, and need a special alcohol solution to remain functional
past a few years of Awakened status. Because of their organic host,
their Breath clings to the body, and cannot be withdrawn once
Invested.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I know a little about
them,&#8221; Vivenna said, &#8220;Denth and his team have a
Lifeless.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher fell silent.&#160;
&#8220;Yes,&#8221; he finally said. &#8220;I know.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna frowned, noticing a
strange look in his eyes. They sat for a few moments. &#8220;You
were talking about Lifeless and their Commands?&#8221; she
prompted.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher nodded. &#8220;They need
a Command to Awaken them, just like anything else. Even your
religion teaches about Commands--it says that Austre is the one who
Commands the Returned to come back.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She nodded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Understanding the theory
of Commands is tough. Look at Lifeless, for instance. It&#8217;s
taken us centuries to discover the most efficient ways to bring a
body to a Lifeless state. Even still, we&#8217;re not sure if we
understand how it works. I guess <i>this</i> is the first thing
I&#8217;d like to get across to you--that BioChroma is complicated,
and we really don&#8217;t understand most of it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What do you mean?&#8221;
She asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Just what I said,&#8221;
Vasher replied, shrugging. &#8220;We don&#8217;t really know what
we&#8217;re doing.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But you sound so
technical in your descriptions.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We&#8217;ve figured out
some things,&#8221; he said. &#8220;But Awakeners really
haven&#8217;t been around that long. The more you learn about
BioChroma, the more you&#8217;re realize that there are more things
that we <i>don&#8217;t</i> know than there are things we do. Why
are the specific Commands so important, and why do they have to be
spoken in your native language? What brings Type One
entities--Returned--back to life in the first place? Why are
Lifeless so dull-minded, while Returned completely
sentient?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna nodded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Creating Type Three
BioChromatic Entities is what we traditionally call
&#8216;Awakening,&#8217;&#8221; Vasher continued.
&#8220;That&#8217;s when you create a BioChromatic manifestation in
an organic host that is far removed from having been alive. Cloth
works the best, though sticks, reeds, and other plant matter can be
used.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What about bones?&#8221;
Vivenna asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They&#8217;re
strange,&#8221; Vasher said. &#8220;Take far more Breath to awaken
than a body held together with flesh and aren&#8217;t as flexible
as something like cloth. Still, Breath will stick to them fairly
easily, since they were once alive and maintain the form of a
living thing.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So Idrian stories that
talk about skeletal armies <i>aren&#8217;t</i> just
fabrications.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He chuckled. &#8220;Oh, they
are. If you wanted to Awaken a skeleton, you&#8217;d have to
arrange all the bones together in their correct places.
That&#8217;s a lot of work for something that will take upwards of
fifty or a hundred Breaths to Awaken. Intact corpses make far more
sense economically, even if the Breath sticks to them so well that
it becomes impossible to recover.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Type Three
Entities--regular Awakened objects--are different. BioChroma
doesn&#8217;t stick to them very well at all. The result is that
they require quite a bit of Investiture--often well over a hundred
Breaths--to Awaken them. The benefit of this, of course, is that
the Breath can be drawn back out again. This has allowed for quite
a bit more experimentation, and that has resulted in a more
comprehensive understanding of Awakening techniques.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You mean the
Commands?&#8221; Vivenna asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Right,&#8221; Vasher
said.&#160; &#8220;As you&#8217;ve seen, most basic Commands work
easily. If the Command something the object could accomplish, and
you state it in a simple way, the Command will usually
work.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I tried some simple
Commands,&#8221; she said. &#8220;On the rope. They didn&#8217;t
work.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Those may have sounded
simple, but they weren&#8217;t. Simple Commands are only two words
long. Grab Something. Hold Something. Move Up. Move down. Twist
around. Even some two word commands can be more complicated, and it
takes practice visualizing--or, well, imagining. Well, using your
mind to--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I understand that
part,&#8221; she said. &#8220;Like flexing a muscle.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He nodded. &#8220;The Command
&#8216;Protect me,&#8217; though only two words, is extremely
complicated. So are others, like Fetch Something. You have to give
the right impulse to the object.&#160; This area is where you
really begin to understand how little we know. There are probably
thousands of Commands we don&#8217;t know. The more words you add,
the more complicated the mental component becomes, which is why
discovering a new Command can take years of study.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Like the discovery of a
new Command to make Lifeless,&#8221; she said thoughtfully.
&#8220;Three hundred years ago, those who had the one-Breath
Command could make their Lifeless much cheaper than those who
didn&#8217;t. That disparity started the Manywar.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; Vasher
said.&#160; &#8220;Or, at least, that was part of what caused the
war. It&#8217;s not really important. The thing to understand is
that we&#8217;re still children when it comes to Awakening. It
doesn&#8217;t help that a lot of people who learn new, valuable
Commands never share them, and probably die with the
knowledge.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna nodded, noticing how
his discussion grew more relaxed and conversational as he got into
the topic. Still, his knowledge surprised her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>He sits on the floor,</i>
she thought, <i>eating a dry piece of squid, not having shaven in
weeks and wearing clothing that looks like it&#8217;s about to fall
off. Yet he talks like a scholar giving a speech. He carries a
sword that leaks black smoke and causes people to kill each other,
yet he works so hard to stop a war. Who is this man?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She glanced to the side, to
where Nightblood stat leaning against the wall. Perhaps it was the
discussion of the technical aspects of BioChroma, or perhaps it was
simply her growing suspicion. She was beginning to understand what
wasn&#8217;t right about the sword.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Is there a Type Four
BioChromatic entity?&#8221; Vivenna asked, glancing back at
Vasher.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He fell silent.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Type One is a human body
with sentience,&#8221; Vivenna said. &#8220;Type Two is a human
body without sentience.&#160; Type three is an Awakened object like
a rope--an object with no sentience. Is there a way to create an
Awakened object <i>with</i> sentience? Like a Returned, but inside
of something other than a human body?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher stood.
&#8220;We&#8217;ve covered enough for one day.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You didn&#8217;t answer
my question.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And I&#8217;m not going
to,&#8221; he said. &#8220;And I advice you never to ask it again.
Understand?&#8221; He glanced at her, and she felt a chill at the
harshness in his voice.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;All right,&#8221; she
said, though she didn&#8217;t glance away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He snorted to himself, then
reached into his large pack, pulling something out.&#160;
&#8220;Here,&#8221; he said. &#8220;I brought you
something.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He tossed a long, cloth-wrapped
object to the floor. Vivenna stood, walking over to pull the cloth
off.&#160; Inside was a thin, well-polished dueling blade.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t know how
to use one of these,&#8221; she said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then learn,&#8221; he
replied. &#8220;If you know how to fight, you&#8217;ll be far less
annoying to have around.&#160; I won&#8217;t have to keep pulling
you out of trouble all the time.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She flushed. &#8220;One
time.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;ll happen
again,&#8221; he said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She hesitantly picked up the
sheathed sword, surprised at how light it was.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Let&#8217;s go,&#8221;
Vasher said. &#8220;I&#8217;ve got another group for us to
visit.&#8221;</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Forty-Seven</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong tried not to think
about his dreams. He tried not to think about T&#8217;Telir in
flames. Of people dying. Of the world, essentially, ending.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He stood on the second story of
his palace, looking over the Court of the Gods. The second story
was essentially a covered roof, open on all sides.&#160; Wind blew
his hair. The sun was close to setting. Already, torches were
arrayed on the lawn. &#160;&#160;It was so perfect. The palaces set
in a circle, lit by torches and lanterns matching the colors of the
nearest palace.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Some of the places were dark;
the buildings currently held no Gods.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>What would happen if too
many others Returned before we killed ourselves?</i> he thought
idly. <i>Would they build more palaces?</i> As far as he knew,
there had always been enough space.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;At the head of the Court sat
the God King&#8217;s palace, tall, black. It had obviously been
built so that it would dominate even the extravagant mansions of
the others, and it threw a wide, warped shadow across the back
wall.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Perfect. So perfect.&#160; The
torches were arranged in patterns he could only see by standing up
atop a building. The grass was kept perfectly manicured, and the
massive wall tapestries were replaced often so that they showed no
wear, stains, or fading.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The people put forth such
effort for their gods. Why? Sometimes it befuddled him. Then he
thought of other religions and the beings they revered. What of
those faiths? Faiths with no visible gods, only incorporeal
imaginings or wishes. Surely those &#8216;gods&#8217; did even less
for their people than the Hallandren court, yet the still were
worshipped.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong shook his head.
Meeting with Allmother had reminded him of days he hadn&#8217;t
thought of in a long time. Calmseer. She had been his mentor when
he&#8217;d first Returned.&#160; Blushweaver was jealous of his
memories of her, but she didn&#8217;t understand truth. Nor could
he, really, explain it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Calmseer had come closer to
being a divinity than any Lightsong had seen. She&#8217;d done for
her followers things such as Allmother now tried, but there had
been genuine concern in Calmseer&#8217;s regard for them. Not a
worry that they would stop worshiping. Not an arrogance of presumed
superiority, mixed with benevolence for those who were so far
beneath them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Real kindness. Real love. Real
mercy.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Yet even Calmseer had felt
inadequate. She had often said she felt guilty because she
couldn&#8217;t live up to what people expected. How could she? How
could anyone? In the end, he suspected this was what drove her
answer a Petition. There had only been one way, in her estimation,
to be the goddess everyone demanded she be. And that was to give up
her life for her people.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>They push us into it,</i>
Lightsong thought. <i>They craft all of this splendor and wonder,
they give us whatever we desire, then they subtly poke at us. Be a
god. Prophesy.&#160; Maintain our illusion for us.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Die. Die so that we can keep
believing.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He usually stayed off of his
roof. He preferred to be down below, where the perspective made it
so much easier to ignore the larger view. So much easier to focus
on simple things, like his life in the moment.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your grace?&#8221;
Llarimar asked quietly, approaching.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong didn&#8217;t
reply.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Are you all right, your
grace?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No man should be this
important,&#8221; Lightsong said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your grace?&#8221;
Llarimar asked, walking up beside him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It does strange things
to you. We weren&#8217;t built for it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;re a god, your
grace. You <i>were</i> built for it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; he said.
&#8220;I&#8217;m no god.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Excuse me, but you
don&#8217;t really get to choose. We worship you, and that makes
you our God.&#8221; Llarimar spoke the words in his usual calm way.
Didn&#8217;t the man <i>ever</i> get upset?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;re not
helping.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I apologize, your grace.
But, perhaps you should stop arguing about the same old
things.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong shook his head.
&#8220;This is something different, today. I&#8217;m not sure what
to do.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You mean about
Allmother&#8217;s Commands?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong nodded. &#8220;I
thought I had it figured out, Scoot. I can&#8217;t keep up with all
of the things Blushweaver is plotting--I&#8217;ve never been good
at details. I&#8217;ve gotten myself in too deeply.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar didn&#8217;t
respond.&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I was going to give it
up,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;Allmother was doing a fantastic
job of standing up for herself. I figured that if I gave her my
Commands, then <i>she&#8217;d</i> know what to do. She&#8217;d
understand if it&#8217;s better to support Blushweaver or oppose
her.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You could still just let
her,&#8221; Llarimar said. &#8220;You gave her your Commands
too.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I know,&#8221; Lightsong
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They fell silent.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>So, it comes down to
this,</i> he thought. <i>The first of us who changes those Commands
takes control of all twenty thousand. The other will be locked
out.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;What did he choose?&#160; Did
he sit back and let history happen, or did he jump in and make a
mess of it?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Whoever you are,</i> he
thought, <i>whatever is out there that sent me back, why
couldn&#8217;t you just leave me be? I&#8217;d already lived one
life. I&#8217;d already made my decisions. Why did you have to send
me back? Couldn&#8217;t I just be done?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He&#8217;d tried everything,
and yet people still looked to him. He knew for a fact that he was
one of the most popular Returned, visited by more petitioners and
given more art than almost anyone else. <i>Honestly,</i> he
thought. <i>What is wrong with these people?</i> Were they so in
need of something to worship that they chose him rather than worry
that their religion might be false?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Allmother claimed that some
<i>did</i> think that. She worried about the perceived lack of
faith among the common people. Lightsong wasn&#8217;t certain he
agreed with her. He knew of the theories--that the gods who lived
the longest were the weak ones because the system encouraged the
best to kill themselves quickly. However, the same number of
petitioners came to him now as when he first started. Plus, too few
gods were chosen on a whole to support a theory that depended upon
statistical dilution over time.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Or was he just distracting
himself with irrelevant details? He leaned on the banister, looking
out over the green as glowing pavilions.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;This could be the crowning
moment for him. He could finally prove himself to be an indolent, a
man who avoided anything that resembled work. It was perfect. If he
did nothing, then Allmother would be forced to take up the armies
and resist Blushweaver.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But was that what he wanted?
Allmother kept herself secluded from the other gods. She
didn&#8217;t attend many Court meetings and didn&#8217;t listen to
the debates. Blushweaver was intricately involved. She knew every
god and goddess. She understood the issues, and she was very
clever. Of all of the Gods, only she had begun taking steps to
secure their armies.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Siri is no threat,</i> he
thought. &#160;But if someone else were manipulating her? Would
Allmother have the political savvy to understand the danger? Would
she be capable of directing the surgings of popular opinion? And,
without guidance, would Blushweaver see that Siri wasn&#8217;t
crushed?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;If he did walk away, there
would be a cost. He would be to blame, for he&#8217;d given up.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Who was she,
Llarimar?&#8221; Lightsong asked quietly. &#8220;The young woman in
my dreams. Was she my wife?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The high priest didn&#8217;t
answer.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I need to know,&#8221;
Lightsong said, turning. &#8220;This time, I <i>really</i> need to
know.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I. . . .&#8221; Llarimar
frowned, then looked away. &#8220;No,&#8221; he said quietly.
&#8220;She was not your wife.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My lover?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shook his head.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But she was important to
me?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Very,&#8221; Llarimar
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And is she still
alive?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar wavered, then finally
nodded his head.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Still alive,</i> Lightsong
thought.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;If this city fell, then she
would be in danger. Everyone who worshiped Lightsong--everyone who
counted on him despite his best efforts--would be in danger. But,
T&#8217;Telir couldn&#8217;t fall. &#160;Even if there was war, the
fighting wouldn&#8217;t come here. Hallandren was not in danger. It
was the most powerful kingdom in the world.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And what of his dreams?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I know I&#8217;m no god,</i>
he thought. <i>Why should I let dreams bother me? There&#8217;s
nothing more to them than my own worried subconscious.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He had only been given one real
duty in the Court. That of taking command of ten thousand
Lifeless.&#160; Of deciding when they should be used. And when they
should not be.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Still alive. . . .</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He turned and walked toward the
steps.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The Lifeless Enclave was
technically part of the Court of Gods. The massive building was
built at the base of the Court plateau, and a long, covered walkway
ran down to it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong moved down the steps
with his entourage. They passed several guard posts, though he
wasn&#8217;t sure why they needed guards in a hallway leading from
the Court. He had only visited the enclave a couple of
times--primarily during his first few weeks as a Returned, when he
had been required to give the security phrase to his ten thousand
soldiers.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Perhaps I should have come
more often,</i> he thought. What would have been the point?&#160;
Servants cared for the Lifeless, making certain their ichor-alcohol
was fresh, that they exercised, and. . .did whatever else it was
that Lifeless did.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar and several of the
other priests were puffing from the long, brisk walk by the time
they reached the bottom of the steps up. Lightsong, of course, had
no trouble He was in perfect physical condition. There were some
things about godhood that never made him complain. A couple of
guards opened the doors into the compound. It was massive, of
course--it contained space for forty thousand Lifeless. There were
four large warehouse-like storage areas for the different groups of
Lifeless, a track for them to run about, a room filled with various
stones and blocks of metal for them to lift to keep their muscles
strong, and a medical area where their ichor-alcohol was tested and
administered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They passed through several
twisting passages, then approached a guard post set beside a large
open doorway. Lightsong passed the guard post, which was populated
with human guards, and looked in at the Lifeless.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He&#8217;d forgotten that they
kept them in the dark.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There they are, your
grace,&#8221; Llarimar said, waving for a couple of priests to hold
up lanterns. The door opened onto a viewing platform. The floor of
the warehouse extended below, filled with line upon line of silent,
waiting soldiers. They wore their armor and carried their weapons
in sheaths.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There are holes in the
ranks,&#8221; Lightsong said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Some of them will be
exercising,&#8221; Llarimar replied. &#8220;I have sent a servant
to fetch them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong nodded. The Lifeless
stood with eyes open. They didn&#8217;t shuffle or cough. Staring
out over them, Lightsong suddenly remembered why he never felt any
desire to return and inspect his troops. They were simply too
unnerving.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Everyone out,&#8221;
Lightsong said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your grace?&#8221;
Llarimar asked. &#8220;Don&#8217;t you want a few priests to
stay?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong shook his head.
&#8220;No. I will bear this phrase myself.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar hesitated, but then
nodded, doing as ordered.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;In Lightsong&#8217;s opinion,
there was no good way of keeping Command Phrases. Leaving them in
the hands of a single god was to risk losing the Phrase through
assassination. However, the more people who knew the Command
Phrases, the more likely it was that the secret would be bribed or
torture, out of someone.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The only mitigating factor was
the God King. Apparently, with his powerful BioChroma, he could
Break Lifeless more quickly. Still, taking control of ten thousand
would weeks, even for the God King.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The choice was left to the
individual Returned. They could to let some of their priests hear
the Command Phrase so that if something happened to the god, the
priests could pass the Phrase on to the next Returned. If the god
chose not to give the Phrase to his priests, then he placed an even
larger burden on himself. Lightsong had found that option silly,
years before, and had included Llarimar and several others in the
secret.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;This time he saw wisdom in
keeping the phrase to himself. Should he get the chance, he would
whisper it to the God King. But only him. &#8220;Bottom line
blue,&#8221; he said. &#8220;I give you a new Command
Phrase.&#8221; He paused. &#8220;Red Panther. Red Panther. Step to
the right side of the room.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A group of the Lifeless near
the front of the crowd moved over to the side.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong sighed, closing his
eyes. A part of him had hoped that Allmother had come here first,
that she had already changed the Command Phrase.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But she hadn&#8217;t. He opened
his eyes then took the steps down to the warehouse floor. He spoke
again, changing the phrase for another group. He could do about
twenty or thirty at a time--he remembered the process taking hours
the last time.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He continued. He would leave
the Lifeless with their basic instructions to obey the servants
when asked creatures to exercise or go to the infirmary. He&#8217;d
give them a lesser command that could be used to move them about
and make them march to specific locations, like when they had been
placed in ranks outside the city to greet Siri. Another to make
them go with members of the City Watch to provide extra muscle.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Yet there would only be one
person with ultimate command of them. One person who could make
them go to war. When he was done in this room, he would move on,
taking utter command of Allmother&#8217;s ten thousand as well.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He would draw both armies to
him. And in doing so, he would take his place at the very heart of
the fate of two kingdoms.</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Forty-Eight</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron didn&#8217;t leave in
the mornings anymore.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri lay in the bed beside him,
curled slightly, her skin against his. He slept peacefully, chest
going up and down, white bed sheets throwing out prismatic colors
around him as they inevitably reacted to his presence. A few months
back, who could have understood where she&#8217;d find herself? Not
only married to the God King of Hallandren, but in love with him as
well.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Part of her still thought it
amazing. He was the most important religious and secular figure in
the whole of the inner sea area. He was the basis for worship of
the Hallandren Iridescent Tones. He was a creature feared and hated
by most people in Idris.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And he was dozing quietly at
her side. A God of color and beauty, his body as perfectly sculpted
a statue. And what was Siri? Not perfect, of that she was sure. And
yet, somehow, she&#8217;d brought to him something that he needed.
A hint of spontaneity. A breath from the outside, untamed by his
priests or his reputation.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She sighed, head resting on his
chest. There would be a price to be paid for their enjoyment of
these last few nights. <i>We really are fools,</i> she thought
idly. <i>We only have to avoid one thing: giving the priests a
child. We&#8217;re pointing ourselves straight toward
danger.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She found it hard to berate
herself too soundly. She suspected that her act wouldn&#8217;t have
fooled the priests for much longer. They would grow suspicious, or
at least frustrated, if she continued to go without producing an
heir. She could see them interfering more if faced with more
stalling.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Whatever she and Susebron did
to change events, they would have to do it quickly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He stirred beside her, and she
twisted, looking at his face as he opened his eyes. He regarded her
for a few minutes, stroking with her hair. It was amazing how
quickly they had become comfortable in their intimacy.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He reached for his writing
board. <i>I love you.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She smiled. It was always the
first thing he wrote in the mornings. &#8220;And I love you,&#8221;
she said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>However,</i> he continued,
<i>we are probably in trouble, aren&#8217;t we?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>How long?</i> he asked.
<i>Until it&#8217;s obvious that you will bear a child, I
mean?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m not
sure,&#8221; she said, frowning. &#8220;I don&#8217;t have much
experience with this, obviously. I know that some of the women back
in Idris complained of not being able to have children as quickly
as they wanted, so maybe it doesn&#8217;t always happen
immediately.&#160; I know other women who bore children almost
exactly nine months after their wedding night.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron looked thoughtful.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>A year from now, I could be
a mother,</i> Siri thought. She found the concept daunting. Up
until a short time ago, she hadn&#8217;t really thought of herself
as an adult. <i>Of course,</i> she thought, feeling a bit sick,
<i>according to what we&#8217;ve been told, any children I bear the
God King would be stillborn anyway.</i> Even if that was a lie,
then her child would be in danger. She still suspected that the
priests would spirit it away, then replace it with a Returned.
Chances were that in such a case, Siri would be made to disappear
as well.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Bluefingers tried to warn
me,</i> she thought. <i>He spoke of danger, not only to Susebron,
but to myself.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron was writing.
<i>I&#8217;ve made a decision,</i> he wrote.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri raised an eyebrow.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I want to try making myself
known to the people,</i> he wrote, <i>and the other gods. I want to
take control of my kingdom for myself.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I thought we decided
that would be too dangerous.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>It will be,</i> he wrote.
<i>But I&#8217;m beginning to think that it is a risk we must
take.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And your objections from
before?&#8221; she asked. &#8220;You can&#8217;t shout out the
truth, and your guards are likely to rush you away if you try
something like escaping.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Yes,</i> Susebron wrote,
<i>but you have far fewer guards, and you</i> can <i>yell.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri paused. &#8220;Yes,&#8221;
she said. &#8220;But would anyone believe me? What would they think
if I &#160;just started screaming about how the God King is being
held prisoner by his own priests?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron cocked his head.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Trust me,&#8221; she
said.&#160; &#8220;They&#8217;d think that I was crazy.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>What if you gained the
confidence of the Returned you often speak about?</i> he wrote.
<i>Lightsong the Bold.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri gave that some
thought.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You could go to him,</i>
Susebron wrote. <i>Tell him the truth. Perhaps he will lead you to
other Returned he thinks might listen. The priests will not be able
to silence us all.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri lay beside him for a
moment, head still resting on his chest. &#8220;It sounds possible,
Seb, but foolhardy.&#160; Why not just run? &#160;My serving women
are from Pahn Kahl now. Bluefingers has said that he will try to
get us out, if I ask. We can flee to Idris.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>If we flee, Hallandren
troops will follow, Siri. We would not be safe in Idris.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We could go somewhere
else, then.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shook his head. <i>Siri, I
have been listening to the arguments in the court of judgment.
There will soon be war between our kingdoms. If we run, we will be
abandoning Idris to invasion.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The invasion will happen
if we stay, too.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Not if I take control of my
throne,</i> Susebron wrote. <i>The people of Hallandren, even the
Gods, are obligated to obey my will. There will be no war if they
know I disapprove.</i> He erased, then continued, writing faster.
<i>I have told the priests that I do not wish to go to war, and
they appeared sympathetic.&#160; However, they have done
nothing.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They are probably
worried,&#8221; Siri said. &#8220;If they let you start making
policy, then you may begin to think that you don&#8217;t need
them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>They are right,</i> he
wrote, smiling. <i>I need to become the leader of my people, Siri.
That is the only way to protect your beautiful hills and the family
you love so much.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri fell silent, offering no
further objections. To do as he was saying would be to play their
hand. Make a gamble for everything. If they failed, the priests
would undoubtedly figure out that Siri and Susebron were in
communication. That would spell the end of their time alone
together.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron obviously noticed her
concern. <i>It is dangerous, but it is the best option. Fleeing
would be just as risky, and it would leave us in far worse
circumstances. In Idris, we would be seen as the reason the
Hallandren armies had come, and do you really think that we could
survive in another country?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri slowly shook her head.
They&#8217;d have no money and would make perfect subjects for
ransom. They&#8217;d escape the priests only to find themselves
being held captive to be used against Hallandren. The Kingdom of
Iridescence was still widely disliked because of the Manywar.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We&#8217;d be taken
captive, as you say,&#8221; she acknowledged. &#8220;Plus, if we
were in another country, I doubt we&#8217;d be able to get you a
Breath every week. Without them, you&#8217;d die.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He looked hesitant.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221; she
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I would not die without
Breath,</i> he said. <i>But that is not an argument for us to
flee.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You mean the stories of
Returned needing Breath to live are lies?&#8221; Siri asked
incredulously.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Not at all,</i> he wrote
quickly. <i>We do need Breath--but you forget that I hold the
wealth off Breath passed down for generations in my family. I heard
my priests speak of this once. If it were necessary to move me, I
could survive based on the extra Breaths I hold. Those over and
above the Breath that makes me Returned. My body would simply feed
off of those, absorbing one a week.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri sat back
thoughtfully.&#160; That seemed to imply something about Breath
that she couldn&#8217;t quite figure out. Unfortunately, she just
didn&#8217;t have the experience to sort through it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;All right,&#8221; she
said.&#160; &#8220;So we <i>could</i> go into hiding if we needed
to.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I said this was not an
argument for fleeing,</i> Susebron wrote. <i>My treasure of Breaths
might keep me alive, but it would also make me a very precious
target. Everyone will want those Breaths--even if I weren&#8217;t
the God King, I would be in danger.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That was very true.&#160; Siri
nodded. &#8220;All right,&#8221; she said. &#8220;No fleeing; that
means exposing your captivity to the other gods. If we&#8217;re
really going to try this, I think we should do it soon. If I
display any signs of being pregnant, I bet it will take the priests
all of two heartbeats to sequester me away.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron nodded. <i>There will
be a general meeting of the court in a couple of days. I have heard
my priests say that this will be an important meeting--it is rare
that the gods are all called together to vote. That meeting will
decided wither or not we march on Idris.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri nodded nervously.&#160;
&#8220;I&#8217;ll sit with Lightsong,&#8221; she said, &#8220;and
plead for his help. If we go to several of the other Gods, perhaps
they--in front of the crowds--can demand to know whether or not I
am lying.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>And I will open my mouth and
reveal that I have no tongue,</i> he wrote. <i>Then let us see what
the priests do. They will be forced to bow before the will of their
own pantheon.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri nodded. &#8220;All
right,&#8221; she said. &#8220;Let&#8217;s try it.&#8221;<br clear=
"all" style='page-break-before:always' /></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Forty-Nine</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher found her practicing
again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He hovered outside the window,
lowered down from the roof via an Awakened rope which gripped him
about the waist. Vivenna repeatedly Awakened a strip of cloth,
unaware of Vasher.&#160; She Commanded the cloth to wiggle across
the room, wrap around a cup, then bring that cup back without
spilling.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>She&#8217;s learning so
quickly,</i> he thought. The Commands themselves were simple to
say, but giving the right mental impulse was difficult. It was like
learning to control a second body.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Even as she watched, she got it
wrong. The cloth wiggled across the room, but climbed into cup
instead of wrapping around it. It shook, making the cup fall over,
then finally returned, leaving a soggy trail. Vivenna cursed and
walked over to refill the cup. She never noticed Vasher hanging
just outside. He wasn&#8217;t surprised--he was currently a Drab,
his excess Breath stored in his shirt.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She replaced the cup, and he
pulled himself up as she walked back. Of course, the mechanics of
how he moved about on the ropes were far more complicated than they
seemed. His Command incorporated making the rope respond to taps of
his finger along its length. Awakening was different from creating
a Lifeless--Lifeless had brains and could interpret Commands and
requests. The rope had none of that; it could only act on its
original instructions.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;With a few taps, he lowered
himself back down, Vivenna&#8217;s back to him again as she picked
up another colored swatch to use as fuel when she Awakened her
cup-fetching ribbon.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I like her,</i> Nightblood
said. <i>I&#8217;m glad we didn&#8217;t kill her.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher didn&#8217;t
respond.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>She&#8217;s very pretty,
don&#8217;t you think?</i> Nightblood asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You can&#8217;t tell,</i>
Vasher replied.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I can tell,</i> Nightblood
said. <i>I&#8217;ve decided that I can.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher shook his head.&#160;
Pretty or not, the woman should never have come to Hallandren.
She&#8217;d given Denth a perfect tool. <i>Of course,</i> he
admitted wryly, <i>Denth probably didn&#8217;t need that tool.</i>
Hallandren and Idris were close to snapping.&#160; Vasher had
stayed away too long. He knew that. He also knew that there was no
way he would have come back earlier.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Inside the room, Vivenna
successfully managed to get the cloth to bring her cup, and she
drank from it with a satisfied look that Vasher could just barely
see from the side.&#160; He had the rope lower him to the ground.
He ordered it to let go up above, then--once it had twisted down
around his arm--he recovered his breath climbed the external steps
to the room.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna turned as Vasher
entered. She set down the cup, hurriedly stuffing the cloth in her
pocket. <i>What does it matter if he sees me practicing?</i> she
thought, flushing. <i>It&#8217;s not like I have anything to
hide.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Practicing before him made her
feel embarrassed. He was so stern, so unforgiving of faults. She
didn&#8217;t like him seeing her fail. &#8220;Well?&#8221; she
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shook his head.&#160;
&#8220;Both the house you were using and the safehouse in the slums
are empty,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Denth is too clever to get caught
like that. He must have figured that you would compromise his
location.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna ground her teeth in
frustration, resting back against the wall. Like the other rooms
they had stayed in, this one was simple. Their only possessions
were a pair of bedrolls and their changes of clothing, all of which
Vasher carried about in his duffle.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth lived far more
luxuriously. He could afford to--he now held all of Lemks&#8217;
money. <i>Clever bit, that,</i> she thought. <i>Giving me the
money, making me feel like I was in charge. He knew all along that
the gold was never out of his hands, just like I never was.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I was hoping
we&#8217;d be able to watch him,&#8221; she said. &#8220;Maybe get
a jump on what he&#8217;s planning next.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher shrugged.&#160;
&#8220;Didn&#8217;t work. No use crying about it. Come on. I think
I can get us in to meet with some of the Idrian workers at one of
the orchards, assuming we arrive during the lunch break.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna frowned as he turned to
go. &#8220;Vasher,&#8221; she said. &#8220;We can&#8217;t keep
doing this.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;This?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;When I was with Denth,
we met with crime lords and politicians. You and I are meeting with
peasants on corners and in fields.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They&#8217;re good
people!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I know they are,&#8221;
Vivenna said quickly. &#8220;But, do you really think we&#8217;re
making a difference? Compared to what Denth is probably doing, I
mean?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He frowned, but instead of
arguing with her, he just pounded his fist against the side of the
wall. &#8220;I know,&#8221; he said. &#8220;I&#8217;ve tried other
leads, but the truth is that most everything I do seems a step
behind Denth. I can kill his gangs of thieves, but he has more of
them than I can find. I&#8217;ve tried to figure out who is behind
the war--even followed leads in the Court of Gods itself--but
everyone is growing more and more closed-lipped. They take the war
as inevitable, now, and don&#8217;t want to be seen on the losing
side of the argument.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What about
priests?&#8221; Vivenna said. &#8220;They&#8217;re the ones who
bring things to the attention of the gods?&#160; If we can get more
of them to argue against the war, then maybe we can stop
it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Priests are
fickle,&#8221; Vasher said with a shake of his head. &#8220;Most of
those who argued against the war have caved in. Even Nanrovah
switched sides on me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Nanrovah?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;High priest of
Stillmark,&#8221; Vasher said. &#8220;I thought he was solid--he
even met with me a few times to talk about his opposition of the
war. Now he refuses to see me anymore and has switched sides.
Colorless liar.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna frowned. <i>Nanrovah. .
. .</i> &#8220;Vasher,&#8221; she said. &#8220;We did something to
him.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;<i>What</i>?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Denth and his
team,&#8221; Vivenna said. &#8220;We helped a gang of thieves rob
from a salt peddler. We used a couple of distractions to cover the
burglary. We set a fire in a nearby building and overturned a
carriage that was passing through the garden. It belonged to a high
priest. I think his name was Nanrovah.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher cursed
quietly.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You think it might be
connected?&#8221; she asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Maybe. You know which
thieves were actually doing the robbery?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shook her head.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;ll be
back,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Wait here.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;So, she did. She waited
for hours. She tried practicing her Awakening, but she&#8217;d
already spent most of the day working on that. She was mentally
exhausted and found it difficult to concentrate. Eventually, she
found herself staring out the window in annoyance. Denth had always
let her go along on his information gathering forays.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>That was just because he
wanted to keep me close,</i> she thought. Now that she looked back,
there were obviously lots of things Denth had been hiding from her.
Vasher just didn&#8217;t care to placate her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He wasn&#8217;t stingy with
information, though, when she asked. His answers were grumpy, but
he did usually answer. She still mulled over their conversation
about Awakening.&#160; Less because of what he&#8217;d said. More
because of the way he&#8217;d said it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She&#8217;d been wrong about
him. She was almost certain of that now. She had to stop judging
people.&#160; But. . .was that possible? Wasn&#8217;t interaction
based, in part, on judgments? A person&#8217;s background and
attitudes influenced how she responded to them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The balance, then, must not be
to stop judging. It was to be careful to not hold those judgments
as immutable. She&#8217;d judged Denth to be a friend, but she
shouldn&#8217;t have ignored the way he talked about mercenaries
having no friends.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The door slammed open.&#160;
Vivenna jumped, putting a hand to her chest.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher walked in.&#160;
&#8220;Start reaching for that sword when you&#8217;re
startled,&#8221; he said. &#8220;There&#8217;s little reason to
grab your shirt, unless you&#8217;re planning to rip it
off.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna flushed, hair twinging
red. The sword he had bought her lay on the side of the room; they
hadn&#8217;t had much opportunity to practice, and she still barely
even knew how to hold the thing. &#8220;Well?&#8221; she asked as
he closed the door. It was already dark outside, and the city was
beginning to sparkle with lights.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The robbery was a
cover,&#8221; Vasher said. &#8220;The real hit was that carriage.
Denth promised the thieves something valuable if they committed a
robbery and started a fire, both as distractions to get at the
carriage.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why?&#8221; Vivenna
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m not
sure.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Coins?&#8221; Vivenna
asked. &#8220;When Tonk Fah hit the horse, it knocked a chest off
the top. It was filled with gold.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What happened
then?&#8221; Vasher asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I left with some others.
I thought the carriage itself was the distraction, and once it went
down, I was supposed to pull out.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Denth?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He wasn&#8217;t there,
come to think of it,&#8221; Vivenna said. &#8220;The others told me
he was working with the thieves.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher nodded, walking over to
his pack. He threw aside the bedrolls then took out several
articles of clothing. He pulled off his shirt, exposing a
well-muscled--and rather hairy--torso. Vivenna blinked in surprise,
then flushed. She probably should have turned aside, but the
curious part of her was too strong. What was he doing?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He didn&#8217;t remove his
trousers, thankfully, but instead threw on a different shirt. The
sleeves of this one were cut into long ribbons near the wrists.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Upon call,&#8221; he
said, &#8220;become my fingers and grip that which I
must.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The cuff tassels wiggled.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Wait,&#8221; Vivenna
said.&#160; &#8220;What was that? A Command?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Too complicated for
you,&#8221; he said, kneeling and undoing the cuff of his trousers.
She could see that here, too, there were extra lengths of cloth.
&#8220;Become as my legs and give them strength,&#8221; he
Commanded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The leg-tassels crossed under
his feet, growing tight. Vivenna didn&#8217;t argue with his
insistence that the Commands were &#8216;too complicated&#8217;.
She just memorized them anyway.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Finally, Vasher threw on his
tattered cloak, which was ripped in places. &#8220;Protect
me,&#8221; he commanded, and she could see almost all of his
remaining breath drain into the cloak. He wrapped his rope belt
around his waist--it was thin, for a rope, and strong, and she knew
its purpose was not to keep his trousers up.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Finally, he picked up
Nightblood.&#160; &#8220;You coming?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Where?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We&#8217;re going to go
capture a few of those thieves. Ask them exactly what Denth wanted
with that carriage.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna felt a stab of fear.
&#8220;Why invite me? Won&#8217;t I just make it harder for
you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Depends,&#8221; he
said.&#160; &#8220;If we get into a fight, and you get in the way,
then it will be more difficult. If we get into a fight and half of
them attack you instead of me, it will make things more
easy.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Assuming you don&#8217;t
defend me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s a good
assumption,&#8221; he said, looking into her eyes. &#8220;If you
want to come, come. But don&#8217;t expect me to protect you,
and--whatever you do--don&#8217;t try and follow on your
own.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I wouldn&#8217;t do such
a thing,&#8221; she said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shrugged. &#8220;I thought
I&#8217;d make the offer. You&#8217;re no prisoner here, Princess.
You can do whatever you want. Just don&#8217;t get in my way when
you do it, understand?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I understand,&#8221; she
said, feeling a chill as she made her decision. &#8220;And
I&#8217;m coming.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He didn&#8217;t try to dissuade
her. He simply pointed at her sword. &#8220;Keep that
on.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She nodded, tying it on.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Draw it,&#8221; he
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She did so, and he corrected
her grip.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What good will holding
it properly do?&#8221; she asked. &#8220;I still don&#8217;t know
how to use it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Look threatening and it
might make someone attacking you pause. Make them hesitate for a
couple seconds in a fight, and that could mean a lot.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She nodded nervously, sliding
the weapon back in its sheath. Then she grabbed several lengths of
rope. &#8220;Hold when thrown,&#8221; she said to the smaller one,
then stuffed it into her pocket.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth eyed her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Better to lose the
Breath than get killed,&#8221; she said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Few Awakeners agree with
you,&#8221; he noted. &#8220;To most of them, the thought of losing
Breath is far more frightening than the prospect of
death.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, I&#8217;m not like
most Awakeners,&#8221; she said. &#8220;Half of me still finds the
process blasphemous.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He nodded. &#8220;Put the rest
of your Breath somewhere else,&#8221; he said, opening the door.
&#8220;We can&#8217;t afford to draw attention.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She grimaced, then did as told,
putting her Breath into her shirt with a basic, and non-active,
Command. It was actually the same as giving a half-spoken Command,
or one that was mumbled, actually. Those would draw out the Breath,
but leave the item unable to act.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;As soon as she placed the
Breath, the dullness returned. Everything seemed. . .dead around
her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Let&#8217;s go,&#8221;
Denth said, moving out into the darkness.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Night in T&#8217;Telir was very
different from her homeland. There, it had been possible to see so
many stars overhead that it looked like a bucket of white sand had
been sprayed into the air. Here, there were street lamps, were
taverns, restaurants, and houses of entertainment. The result was a
city full of lights--a little like the stars themselves had come
down to inspect grand T&#8217;Telir. Even still, Vivenna was
saddened by how few stars she could see from inside the city.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;None of that meant that the
places they were going were--by any means--bright. Vasher led her
through the streets, and he quickly became little more than a
hulking shadow. They left behind places with street lights, and
even lit windows, moving into an unfamiliar slum. This was one of
those she&#8217;d been afraid to enter, even when living on the
streets. The night seemed to grow even darker as they entered and
walked down one of the twisting, dark alleys that passed for
streets in such places. They remained silent. Vivenna knew not to
speak and draw attention.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Eventually, Vasher pulled to a
stop. He pointed toward a building: single story, flat-topped, and
wide. It sat alone, in a depression, shanties built from refuse
covering the ground running up the slight hill behind it. Vasher
waved for her to stay back, then quietly put the rest of his Breath
into a rope and crept forward up the hill.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna waited, nervous,
kneeling beside a decaying shanty that looked to have been built
from half-crumbling bricks. <i>Why did I come?</i> she thought.
&#160;<i>He didn&#8217;t tell me to--he simply said that I could. I
could just as easily have stayed behind.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But she was tired of having
things happen <i>to</i> her. She had been the one to point out that
maybe there was a connection between the priest and Denth&#8217;s
plan. She wanted to see this to the end. Do something.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That had been easy to think
back in the lit room. It didn&#8217;t help her nerves that, looming
to the left side of the shanty, stood one of the D&#8217;Denir
statues. There had been some of them in the Highland slums as well,
though most of them had been defaced or broken.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She couldn&#8217;t feel
anything with her life sense. Without her Breath, she felt almost
as if she&#8217;d been made blind. Loosing it brought her memories
of nights sleeping in the mud of a cold alleyway. &#160;Beatings
administered by urchins half her size but with twice her
competency. Hunger. Terrible, omnipresent, depressing and draining
hunger.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A footstep cracked and a shadow
loomed. She nearly gasped in shock, but managed to keep it in as
she recognized Nightblood in the figure&#8217;s hand.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Two guards,&#8221;
Vasher said. &#8220;Both silenced.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Will they work for
answering our questions?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher shook a silhouetted
head. &#8220;Practically kids. We need someone more important.
We&#8217;ll have to go in. Either that, or sit and watch for a few
days to determine who is in charge, then grab him when he&#8217;s
alone.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That would take too
long,&#8221; Vivenna whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I agree,&#8221; he said.
&#8220;I can&#8217;t use the sword, though. When Nightblood is done
with a group, there&#8217;s never anyone to question.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna shivered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Come on,&#8221; he
whispered.&#160; She followed as quietly as she could, moving for
the front door. Vasher grabbed her arm and shook his head. She
followed him around to the side, barely noticing the two lumps of
unconscious bodies stuffed into a ditch. At the back of the
building, Vasher began to feel around on the ground. After a few
moments without success, he cursed quietly and pulled something
from his pocket. A handful of straw.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;In just a few seconds, he had
constructed three little men from of the straw, using Breath
reclaimed from his cloak to give them life. He gave each one the
same command &#8220;Find Tunnels.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna watched with
fascination. <i>That&#8217;s far more abstract a Command than he
led me to believe was possible,</i> she thought as the little men
scuttled around on the ground.&#160; Vasher himself returned to his
searching. <i>But. . .it seems that experience--and ability to use
mental images--is the most important aspect of Awakening.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>He&#8217;s been doing this a
long time, and the way he spoke before--like a scholar--indicates
he&#8217;s studied Awakening very seriously.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;One of the straw men began to
jump up and down. The other two rushed over to it and then they
began to bounce as well. Vasher joined them, as did Vivenna, and
she watched as he uncovered a trap door hidden with a thick layer
of dirt on it. He raised it a tad, then reached underneath. His
hand came back out with several small bells, which had apparently
been rigged there to ring if the door were opened all the way.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No group like this has a
hideout without bolt holes,&#8221; Vasher said. &#8220;Usually a
couple of them. Always trapped.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna watched as he recovered
the Breath from the straw men, quietly apologizing to each one. She
frowned at the curious words. They were just piles of straw. Why
apologize?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He put the Breath back into his
cloak with a protection Command then led the way down through the
trap door. Vivenna followed, stepping softly, skipping a particular
step when Vasher indicated. The bottom was a cellar-like
tunnel--or, so she got from feeling along the sides of the
lightless earthen chamber.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher moved forward; she could
only tell because of his rustling clothing. She followed and was
curious to see light ahead. She could also hear voices. Men
talking, and laughing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Soon she could see
Vasher&#8217;s silhouette; she moved up next to him, peeking into
an earthen room.&#160; There was a fire burning at the center, the
smoke twisting up through a hole in the ceiling. The upper
chamber--the building itself--was probably just a front, for the
chamber down here looked very lived-in. There were piles of cloth,
bed rolls, pots and pans. All of it as dirty as the men who sat
around the fire, laughing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher gestured to the side.
There was another tunnel. Vivenna&#8217;s heart jumped in shock as
Vasher crept into the room and toward the tunnel. She glanced at
the fire. The men were very focused on their drinking, and were
blinded by the light. They didn&#8217;t seem to notice Vasher.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She took a deep breath, then
followed, feeling exposed with the firelight to her back. Vasher
didn&#8217;t go very far, however, before stopping. Vivenna nearly
collided with him. He stood there for a few moments; finally,
Vivenna poked him in the back, trying to get him to move aside so
that she could see what he was doing. He shuffled letting her see
what was before him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;This tunnel ended
abruptly--apparently, it was less of a tunnel, and more of a nook.
Nestled against the back of the nook was a cage, about as tall as
Vivenna&#8217;s waist. Inside the cage was a child.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna gasped softly, pushing
past Vasher and kneeling down beside the cage. <i>The valuable
thing in the carriage,</i> she thought, making the connection.
<i>It wasn&#8217;t the coins. It was the priest&#8217;s daughter.
The perfect bargaining chip if you wanted to blackmail someone into
changing their position at court.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;As Vivenna knelt, the girl
pulled back in the cage, sniffling quietly and quivering. The cage
stank of human waste, and the child was covered in grime. All
except for her cheeks, which had been washed clean by
tears.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna looked up at Vasher.
His eyes were shadowed, his back to the fire, but she could see him
gritting his teeth. She could see tension in his muscles. He turned
his head to the side, half-lighting his face by the illumination of
the red fire.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;In that single lit eye, Vivenna
saw fury.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Hey!&#8221; one of the
thieves called.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Get the child
out,&#8221; Vasher said in a harsh whisper.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;How did you get
here!&#8221; another man yelled.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher met her eyes with his
single illuminated one, and she felt herself shrink before him. She
nodded, and Vasher turned away from her, one hand clenching into a
fist, the other grabbing Nightblood in a hard-knuckled grip. He
stepped slowly, deliberately, as he approached the men, his cloak
rustling. Vivenna intended to do as asked, but she found it hard
too look away from him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Men drew blades.&#160; Vasher
moved suddenly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Nightblood, still sheathed,
took one man in the chest, and Vivenna heard bones snap. Another
man attacked, and Vasher spun, whipping out a hand. The tassels on
his sleeve moved on their own, wrapping around the blade of the
thief&#8217;s sword, catching it. Vasher&#8217;s momentum ripped
the blade free, and he tossed it aside, the tassels releasing
it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The sword hit the dirt of the
cellar floor; Vasher&#8217;s hand snapped up, grabbing the thief by
he face.&#160; The tassels wrapped like too-limber fingers around
the man&#8217;s head, latching on like a squid&#8217;s tentacles.
Vasher slammed then man down into the ground--kneeling to give
momentum--even as he rammed the sheathed Nightblood into another
man&#8217;s legs, dropping him. A third tried to cut Vasher from
behind, and Vivenna cried a warning. Vasher&#8217;s cloak, however,
suddenly whipped out--moving on its own--and grabbed the surprised
man by the arms.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher turned, anger in his
face, and swung Nightblood toward the captured man. Vivenna cringed
at the sound of the cracking bones, and she turned away from the
fight as the screaming continued. With shaking fingers, she tried
to open the cage.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was locked, of course. She
drew out some Breath from a rope, then tried to Awaken the lock,
but nothing happened.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Metal,</i> she thought.
<i>Of course. It hasn&#8217;t been alive, so it can&#8217;t be
Awakened.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Instead she pulled a thread
free from her shirt, trying to ignore the cries of pain from
behind.&#160; Vasher began to bellow as he fought, losing any
semblance of being a cold, professional killer. This was a man
enraged.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She raised the thread.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Unlock things,&#8221;
she Commanded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The thread wiggled a bit, but
when she stuck it into the lock, nothing happened.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She withdrew the Breath, took a
few calming breaths of her own, then closed her eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Have to get the intention
right. Need it to go inside, twist the tumbler free.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Twist things,&#8221; she
said, feeling the Breath leave her. She stuck the thread into the
lock. It spun about, and she heard a click. The door opened. The
sounds of fighting from behind stopped, though men continued to
moan.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna recovered her Breath
then reached into the cage. The girl cringed, crying out and hiding
her face.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m a
friend,&#8221; Vivenna said soothingly. &#8220;Please, I&#8217;m
here to help you.&#8221; But the girl wiggled, screaming when
touched. Frustrated, Vivenna turned back toward Vasher.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He stood beside the fire, head
bowed, bodies strewn around him. He held Nightblood in one hand,
sheathed tip resting back against the dirty floor.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher&#8217;s other hand was
on Nightblood&#8217;s hilt. The sheath clasp was undone, and black
smoke crept out, off of the blade, some pouring toward the ground,
some floating up toward the ceiling. As if it couldn&#8217;t
decide.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher&#8217;s arm was
quivering.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Draw. . .me. . . .</i> a
distant voice seemed to say in Vivenna&#8217;s head. <i>Kill them.
. . .</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Many of the men still twitched
on the ground. Vasher began to slide the blade free. It was dark
black, and it seemed to suck in the firelight.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>This isn&#8217;t good,</i>
she thought. &#8220;Vasher!&#8221; she yelled. &#8220;Vasher, the
girl won&#8217;t come to me!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He froze, then glanced at her,
eyes glazed over.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You defeated them,
Vasher. No need to draw the sword.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Yes. . .yes there is. . .
.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He blinked, then saw her. He
snapped Nightblood back into place, shaking his head and rushing
toward her. He kicked a body as he passed, earning a grunt.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Colorless
monsters,&#8221; he whispered, looking into the cage. He reached
out his hands. And, oddly, the child immediately went to him,
grabbing his chest and weeping. Vivenna watched with shock. Vasher
picked the child up, tears in his own eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You know her?&#8221;
Vivenna asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shook his head.&#160;
&#8220;I&#8217;ve met Nanrovah, and knew he had young children, but
I never met any of them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then how? Why did she
come to <i>you</i>?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He didn&#8217;t answer.&#160;
&#8220;Come on,&#8221; he said. &#8220;I attacked the ones who came
running down when they heard screams. But more might
return.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He looked like he almost wished
that would happen. He turned toward the exit tunnel, and Vivenna
followed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They immediately moved toward
one of the rich neighborhoods of T&#8217;Telir. Vasher didn&#8217;t
say much as they walked, and the girl was even more unresponsive.
Vivenna worried for the child&#8217;s mind. She had obviously had a
rough couple of months.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They passed from shanties, to
tenements, to fine homes on tree-lined streets. As they reached the
mansions, Vasher paused on the street, setting the girl down.
&#8220;Child,&#8221; he said. &#8220;I&#8217;m going to say some
words to you. I want you to repeat them. Repeat them, and
<i>mean</i> them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The girl regarded him absently,
nodding slightly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He glanced at Vivenna.&#160;
&#8220;Back away.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She opened her mouth to object,
but thought better of it. She stepped back out of earshot.
&#160;Fortunately, Vasher was near a lit street lamp, so she could
see him well. He spoke to the little girl, and she spoke back to
him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;After opening the cage, Vivenna
had taken the Breath back from the thread. She hadn&#8217;t stowed
it somewhere else. And, with the awareness she had, she thought she
saw something. The girl&#8217;s BioChromatic aura--the normal one
that all people had--flickered just slightly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was faint. Yet with the
First Heightening, Vivenna could have sworn she saw it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>But, Denth told me it was
all or nothing,</i> she thought. <i>You have to give away all the
Breath you hold. And you certainly can&#8217;t give away</i> part
<i>of a breath.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher stood, the girl climbing
back into his arms. Vivenna walked up and was surprised to hear the
girl talking. &#8220;Where&#8217;s daddy?&#8221; she asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher didn&#8217;t reply.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m dirty,&#8221;
the girl said, looking down. &#8220;Mommy doesn&#8217;t like it
when I get dirty. The dress is dirty too.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher began walking.&#160;
Vivenna hurriedly caught up.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Are we going
home?&#8221; the girl asked. &#8220;Where have we been? It&#8217;s
late, and I shouldn&#8217;t be out.&#160; Who&#8217;s that
woman?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>She doesn&#8217;t
remember,</i> Vivenna realized. <i>Doesn&#8217;t remember where
she&#8217;s been. . .probably doesn&#8217;t remember anything of
the entire experience.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna looked again at Vasher,
walking with his ragged beard, eyes forward, child in one arm,
Nightblood in the other. He walked right up to a mansion&#8217;s
gates then kicked them open. He moved onto the mansion grounds, and
Vivenna following more nervously.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A pair of guard dogs began
barking. They howled and growled, getting closer. Vivenna
cringed.&#160; Yet, as soon as they saw Vasher, they grew quiet,
then trailed along happily, one hopping up and trying to lick his
hands.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>What in the name of the
Colors is going on?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Some people were gathering at
the front of the mansion, holding lanterns, trying to see what had
caused the barking. One saw Vasher, said something to the others,
then disappeared back inside. By the time Vivenna and Vasher had
reached the front patio, a man had appeared at the front doors. He
wore a white nightgown and was guarded by a couple of soldiers.
They stepped forward to block Vasher, but the man in the nightgown
rushed between them, crying out. He wept as he took the child from
Vasher&#8217;s arms.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Thank you,&#8221; he
whispered. &#8220;Thank you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna stood quietly, staying
back. The dogs continued to lick Vasher&#8217;s hands, though they
noticeably stayed away from Nightblood.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man clutched his child
before finally surrendering her to a woman who had just
arrived--the child&#8217;s mother, Vivenna assumed. The woman cried
in joy, taking the girl.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why have you returned
her,&#8221; the man said, looking at Vasher.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Those who took her have
been punished,&#8221; Vasher said in his quiet, gruff voice.
&#8220;That&#8217;s all that needs matter to you right
now.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man squinted. &#8220;Do I
know you, stranger?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We&#8217;ve met,&#8221;
Vasher said. &#8220;I asked you to argue against the
war.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s
right!&#8221; the man said. &#8220;You didn&#8217;t need to
encourage me. But when they took Misel away from me. . . . I had to
stay quiet about what had happened, had to change my arguments, or
they said they&#8217;d kill her.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher turned away, moving to
walk back down the path. &#8220;Take your child, keep her
safe.&#8221; He paused, turning back. &#8220;And make certain this
kingdom doesn&#8217;t send its Lifeless to a slaughter.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man nodded, still weeping.
&#8220;Yes, yes. Of course. Thank you. Thank you so
much.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher continued walking.
Vivenna rushed after him, eyeing the dogs. &#8220;How did you make
them stop barking?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He didn&#8217;t respond.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She glanced back at the
mansion.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You have redeemed
yourself,&#8221; he said quietly, passing the dark gates.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Kidnapping that girl is
something Denth would have done, even if you hadn&#8217;t come to
T&#8217;Telir,&#8221; Vasher said. &#8220;I would ever have found
her. Denth worked with too many different groups of thieves, and I
thought that burglary was simply intended to disrupt supplies. Like
everyone else, I ignored the carriage.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He stopped then looked at
Vivenna in the darkness. &#8220;You saved that girl&#8217;s
life.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;By happenstance,&#8221;
she said. She couldn&#8217;t see her hair in the dark, but she
could feel it going red.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Regardless.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna smiled, the compliment
affecting her--for some reason--far more than it should have.&#160;
&#8220;Thank you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m sorry I lost
my temper,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Back in that lair. A warrior is
supposed to be calm. When you duel or fight, you can&#8217;t let
anger control you. That&#8217;s why I&#8217;ve never been that good
of a duelist.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You did the job,&#8221;
she said, &#8220;and Denth has lost another pawn.&#8221; They moved
out onto the street.&#160; &#8220;Though,&#8221; she added,
&#8220;I wish I hadn&#8217;t seen that lavish mansion.
Doesn&#8217;t help my opinion of the Hallandren priests.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher snorted.
&#8220;Nanrovah&#8217;s father was one of the most wealthy
merchants in the city. The son dedicated himself to serving the
gods out of thankfulness for their blessings. He takes no pay for
his service.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna paused.
&#8220;Oh.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher shrugged in the
darkness. &#8220;Priests are always easy to blame. They make
convenient scapegoats--after all, anyone with a strong faith
different from your own must either be a crazy zealot or a lying
manipulator.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna flushed yet again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher stopped in the street,
then turned to her. &#8220;I&#8217;m. . .sorry,&#8221; he said.
&#8220;I didn&#8217;t mean to say it that way.&#8221; He cursed,
turning and walking again. &#8220;I told you I&#8217;m no good at
this.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s all
right,&#8221; she said. &#8220;I&#8217;m getting used to
it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He nodded in the darkness,
seeming distracted.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>He is a good man,</i> she
thought. <i>Or, at least, an earnest man trying to be a good.</i> A
part of her felt foolish for making yet another judgment.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Yet, she knew she
couldn&#8217;t live--couldn&#8217;t interact--without making some
judgments. So she judged Vasher. Not as she&#8217;d judged Denth,
who had said amusing things and given her what she&#8217;d wanted
to see. She judged Vasher by what she had seen him do. Cry when he
saw a child being held captive. Return that child to her father,
his only reward an opportunity to make a rough plea for peace.
Living with barely any money, dedicating himself to preventing a
war.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He was rough. He was brutal.
&#160;He had a terrible temper. But he was a good man. And, walking
beside him, she felt safe for the first time in weeks.</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Fifty</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And so we each have
twenty-thousand,&#8221; Blushweaver said, walking beside Lightsong
on the stone pathway that led in a circle around the arena.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='text-align:justify;line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; Lightsong
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Their priests, attendants, and
servants followed in a herd, though the two Gods had refused
pavilion or shade. They walked solitarily, side by side. Lightsong
in gold and red. Blushweaver, for once, wearing a gown that
actually covered her up.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Amazing, how good she looks
in one of those,</i> he found himself thinking, <i>when she takes
the time to respect herself.</i> He wasn&#8217;t certain what made
him dislike revealing outfits. Perhaps he&#8217;d been a prude in
his former life.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Or perhaps he simply was one
now. He smiled ruefully to himself. <i>How much can I really blame
on my &#8216;old&#8217; self? That man is dead. He wasn&#8217;t the
one who got himself involved in the politics of the
kingdom.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The arena was filling, and--in
a rare show--it appeared that all of the Gods would be in
attendance.&#160; Only Weatherlove was late, but he was often a
little bit behind.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Important events come,</i>
Lightsong thought. <i>They have been building for years now. Why
should I be at the center of them?</i> So many of the gods nodded
in respect as he passed their pavilions--though, admittedly, a few
scowled at him, and a few just ignored him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>What a strange method of
rule. Immortals who only last a decade or two---and who have never
seen the outside world. And the people trust us.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>The people trust us.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I think we should share
the Command phrases with each other, Lightsong,&#8221; Blushweaver
said. &#8220;So that we each have all four, just in
case.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He didn&#8217;t say
anything.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She turned away from him,
looking at the people in their colorful clothing, clogging the
benches and seats. &#8220;My, my,&#8221; Blushweaver said,
&#8220;quite the crowd. And so few of them paying attention to me.
Quite rude of them, wouldn&#8217;t you say?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong shrugged.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, that&#8217;s
right,&#8221; she said. &#8220;You think that ignoring me is high
praise.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong paused, then smiled
faintly, remembering their conversation a few months back.
&#160;The day this had all started. He had claimed--in his usual
flippant way--that by ignoring her, he gave her the respect she
deserved.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver looked at him, a
longing in her eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Indeed,&#8221; Lightsong
said. &#8220;Or, at least, that was once my opinion. I have come to
revise it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver smiled.&#160;
&#8220;You have, have you?&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, I have,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;You see, to ignore you is to invite your
attention. That, in turn, allows you to act indignant, which we all
know is when you are in best form. And yet, the act is spoiled by
intention.&#160; Only truly, <i>sincerely</i> ignoring you would
provide compliment. I am, unfortunately, unable to ignore you in
such a benevolent manner. I do apologize.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh?&#8221; Blushweaver
said. &#8220;You seem very good at ignoring <i>some</i> things.
Your own divinity.&#160; General good manners. My feminine
wiles.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;re hardly
wily, my dear,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;A wily man is one who
fights with a small, carefully hidden dagger. You are more like a
man who fights with a boulder the size of three palace stones.
Regardless, I do have another method of dealing with you, one that
you shall likely find quite flattering.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Somehow I find myself
doubting.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You should show more
faith in me,&#8221; he said with a flippant wave of the hand.
&#8220;I am, after all, a god.&#160; In my divine wisdom, I have
realized that the only way to truly compliment one such as
you--Blushweaver--is to be far more attractive, intelligent, and
interesting than you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She snorted. &#8220;Well, then,
I feel rather insulted by <i>your</i> presence.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Touch&#233;,&#8221;
Lightsong said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Are you going to explain
<i>why</i> you consider showing me up to be the most sincere form
of compliment?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course I am,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;My dear, have you ever known me to make an
inflammatorily ridiculous statement without providing an equally
ridiculous explanation to back it up?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course not,&#8221;
she agreed. &#8220;You are nothing if not exhaustive in your
self-congratulatory made-up logic.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m rather humble
that way.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Undoubtedly.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Anyway,&#8221; Lightsong
said, holding up a finger, &#8220;by being far more stunning than
you are, I invite people to ignore you and pay attention to me.
That, in turn, invites <i>you</i> to act your usual charming
self--throwing fits and being seductive--to draw the attention back
to you. And that, as I explained, is when you are most
majestic.&#160; Therefore, the only way to make certain you receive
the attention you deserve is to draw it all away from you. It
really is <i>quite</i> a difficult task.&#160; I hope you
appreciate the work I do to be so wonderful.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Let me assure you,&#8221; she
said, &#8220;I do. In fact, I appreciate it so very much that I
would like to give you a break. You can back down. I will take the
awful burden of being the most wonderful of the gods.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I couldn&#8217;t
possibly let you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But if you are
<i>too</i> wonderful, my dear, you will completely destroy your
image.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s getting a
little tiresome anyway,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;I&#8217;ve
long sought to be the laziest of the gods, but I&#8217;m realizing
more and more that such a task is beyond me. The others are all so
much more delightfully useless than I am. They just pretend to not
be aware of it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver glanced at him,
obviously sensing the hint of bitterness in his voice. They stopped
on the walkway, Blushweaver facing him, her back to the arena
floor. Lightsong feigned a smile, but the moment was dying. They
couldn&#8217;t continue as they had.&#160; Not amidst the weights
that moved around them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They aren&#8217;t as bad
as you imply,&#8221; she said quietly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Only a group of idiots
beyond imagining would give <i>me</i> control of their
armies.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They trust
you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They&#8217;re
lazy,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;They want others to make the
difficult decisions. That&#8217;s what this system encourages,
Blushweaver. We&#8217;re all locked in here, told to spend our time
in idleness and pleasure. And then we&#8217;re expected to know
what is best for our country?&#8221; He shook his head.
&#8220;We&#8217;re more afraid of the outside than we&#8217;re
willing to admit. All we have are paintings and dreams.
That&#8217;s why you and I ended up with these armies. Nobody
wanted to be the one who actually sent our troops out to kill. They
all want to be involved, but nobody wants to be
responsible.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He fell silent. She looked up
at him, a goddess of perfect form. So much stronger than the
others, but she hid it behind her own veil of ridiculousness.
&#8220;I know one thing that you said is true,&#8221; she said
quietly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And that is?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You are wonderful,
Lightsong.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He stood there, looking into
her eyes for a time. Wide, beautiful eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;re not going
to give me your Command Phrases, are you?&#8221; she asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shook his head.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I brought you into
this,&#8221; she said. &#8220;You always talk about being useless,
but we all know that you&#8217;re one of the few who always goes
through every picture in his gallery.&#160; The one who listens
most attentively to his Petitioners.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They are fools,&#8221;
he said. &#8220;There is nothing in me to respect.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; She
said.&#160; &#8220;You&#8217;re the one who makes us laugh, even
while you insult us. Can&#8217;t you see what <i>that</i> does?
Can&#8217;t you see how you&#8217;ve inadvertently set yourself
above everyone else? You didn&#8217;t do it intentionally,
Lightsong, and that&#8217;s what makes it work so well. In a city
of frivolity, you&#8217;re the only one who&#8217;s shown any
measure of wisdom. In my opinion, that&#8217;s why you hold the
armies.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He didn&#8217;t reply.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I knew the others
respected you,&#8221; she said. &#8220;But I thought that I&#8217;d
be able to influence you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You can,&#8221; he
said.&#160; &#8220;As you&#8217;ve said, it&#8217;s your fault that
I&#8217;m involved in all of this.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shook her head, still
staring into his eyes. &#8220;I can&#8217;t decide which feeling
for you is stronger, Lightsong. My love or my
frustration.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He took her hand, then kissed
it. &#8220;I accept them both, Blushweaver. With honor.&#8221; And
with that, he turned from her, drawing his servants away as he
approached his box.&#160; Weatherlove had arrived; that only left
the God King and his bride. Lightsong sat down, wondering where
Siri was. She usually got to the arena long before it was time to
begin.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He found it difficult to focus
his attention on the young queen. Blushweaver still stood on the
walkway where he had left her. She was watching him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Finally, she turned, trailed by
her servants as she made her way to her own pavilion.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri walked through the palace
corridors, surrounded by her serving women in brown, a dozen
worries going through her head.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>First, go to Lightsong,</i>
she told herself, going over the plan. <i>It won&#8217;t look odd
for me to sit with him--we often spend time together at these
things.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I wait for Susebron to
arrive. Then I ask Lightsong we can talk in private, without our
servants or his priests. I explain what I have discovered about the
God King. I tell him about the way Susebron is being kept captive.
Then we see what he does.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her biggest fear was that
Lightsong would already know, somehow. Could he be part of the
entire conspiracy? She trusted him as much as she trusted anyone
except Susebron, but her nerves had a way of making her question
everything and everyone.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She passed through room after
room, each one draped in a theme of colors. She almost didn&#8217;t
notice how bright those were anymore.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Assuming Lightsong agrees to
help,</i> she thought, <i>I wait for intermission. Once the priests
step off the sand, Lightsong goes and speaks with several other
gods. They each go to their priests and instruct them to begin a
discussion in the arena about whether the God King is capable of
speaking. They force the God King&#8217;s priests to let him make
his defense.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She didn&#8217;t like trusting
the priests, but this did seem like the best way to voice the
problem to the people. &#160;Plus, if the priests didn&#8217;t do
as instructed, Lightsong and the others would realize that they
were being undermined by their own servants. Either way, Siri
realized she was getting into very dangerous territory.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I</i> started <i>in
dangerous territory,</i> she thought, leaving the rooms of the
palace and entering the dark outer hallway. <i>The man I love is
threatened with death, and any children I bear will be taken from
me.</i> She either had to act or let the priests continue to push
her about. Susebron and she were in agreement. The best plan
was--</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri slowed. At the end of the
hallway, a small group of priests stood with several Lifeless
soldiers. They were silhouetted by the evening light outside. The
priests turned toward her, and one pointed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Colors!</i> Siri thought,
spinning. Another group of priests was approaching up the back
hallway. <i>No! Not now!</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The two groups of priests
closed. Siri considered running, but where? Dashing in her long
dress--pushing through servants and Lifeless--seemed ridiculous to
her. She raised her chin--eying the priests with a flat stare--and
kept her hair completely under control. &#8220;What is the meaning
of this?&#8221; she demanded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We&#8217;re terribly
sorry, Vessel,&#8221; the lead priest said. &#8220;But it has been
decided that you shouldn&#8217;t be exerting yourself while in your
condition.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My condition?&#8221;
Siri asked icily. &#8220;What foolishness is this?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The child,
Vessel,&#8221; the priest said. &#8220;We can&#8217;t risk danger
to it. There are many who would try to harm you, should they know
that you are carrying.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri froze. <i>Child?</i> she
thought with shock. <i>How could they know that Susebron and I have
actually started. . . .</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But no. &#160;She would know if
she were with child, she was sure. However, she&#8217;d supposedly
been sleeping with the God King for months now. That was just
enough time for a pregnancy to be discovered. It would sound
plausible to the people of the city.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Fool!</i> She thought to
herself in a sudden panic. <i>Assuming they&#8217;ve already found
their replacement God King, I don&#8217;t actually need me to bear
them a child. They just have to make everyone</i> think <i>I was
pregnant!</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There is no
child,&#8221; she said. &#8220;You were just waiting--you just had
to stall until you had an excuse to lock me away.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Please, Vessel,&#8221;
one of the priests said, gesturing for a Lifeless to take her arm.
She didn&#8217;t struggle; she forced herself to remain calm,
staring the priest in the eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He looked away. &#8220;This
will be for the best,&#8221; he said. &#8220;It&#8217;s for your
own good.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m sure it
is,&#8221; she snapped, but allowed herself to be led back to her
rooms.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna sat among the
crowds, watching and waiting. Part of her felt foolish at coming
out into the open so flagrantly. However, that part of her--the
cautious princess raised in Idris--was growing more and more
quiet.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth&#8217;s people had found
her when she&#8217;d been hiding in the slums. She&#8217;d probably
be safer in the crowds with Vasher than she ever was in alleyways.
Particularly considering how well she blended in. She hadn&#8217;t
realized how natural it could feel to sit in trousers and a tunic,
colored brightly, completely ignored.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher appeared at the railing
above the benches. She carefully slipped out of her seat--someone
else took it immediately--and walked toward him. The priests had
already begun their arguments down below. Nanrovah, his daughter
restored to him, had started by announcing his changed mind. He
currently was leading the discussion against war.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He had very little support.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna joined Vasher beside
the railing, and he quite unapologetically elbowed some room out
for her. He didn&#8217;t carry Nightblood--at her insistence, he
had left the sword behind with her own dueling blade.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well?&#8221; she asked
quietly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shook his head. &#8220;If
Denth is here, I couldn&#8217;t find him.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No surprise, considering
the size of that crowd,&#8221; Vivenna said quietly. There were
bodies all around them--many lining the railing. &#8220;Where did
they all come from?&#8221; Vivenna asked. &#8220;This is far more
busy than the other court sessions.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shrugged. &#8220;People who
are given a one time visit to the court can hold their token of
entry until they want to use it. A lot of them use those at a
general court session, rather than one of the smaller
meetings.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna turned back to look
over the crowd. She suspected it also had to do with the rumors
she&#8217;d heard. People thought that this session would be the
one where the Pantheon of Returned finally declared war on
Idris.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Nanrovah argues
well,&#8221; she said. She was having trouble hearing him because
of the crowds--the Returned apparently had messengers relaying
transcripts. She wondered why someone just didn&#8217;t order all
the people to be quiet. &#160;That didn&#8217;t seem to be the
Hallandren way. They liked chaos. Or, at least, they liked the
opportunity to sit and chat about things while important events
were occurring.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Nanrovah is being
ignored,&#8221; Vasher said. &#8220;He&#8217;s changed his mind
twice now on the same issue. He lacks credibility.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He should explain why he
changed his mind, then.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That could hurt his
position. If the people knew his child had been kidnapped, it would
make them more afraid. Plus there&#8217;s that stubborn Hallandren
pride. Priests are particularly bad. Mentioning that his daughter
had been taken, and that he had been pressured into changing his
politics. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I thought you liked the
priests,&#8221; she said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Some of them,&#8221; he
said. &#8220;Not others.&#8221; When he said that, he eyed the God
King&#8217;s pedestal. &#160;Susebron had yet to arrive and they
had apparently started without him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri wasn&#8217;t there either.
That annoyed Vivenna, since she&#8217;d been anticipating checking
in on the girl, if only from a distance.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I&#8217;ll help you, Siri.
For real this time. The first step has to be stopping this
war.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher looked back at the floor
of the arena, leaning on the railing, looking anxious.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221; she
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shrugged.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She rolled her eyes.&#160;
&#8220;Tell me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I just don&#8217;t like
leaving Nightblood alone for too long,&#8221; he said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What&#8217;s it going to
do?&#8221; Vivenna asked. &#8220;We locked it in the
closet.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shrugged again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Honestly,&#8221; she
said.&#160; &#8220;You would think that you&#8217;d realize that
bringing a five foot long black sword into public would be a little
conspicuous. It doesn&#8217;t help, mind you, that said sword
bleeds smoke and can talk in people&#8217;s minds.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t mind being
conspicuous.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I do,&#8221; she
replied.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher grimaced, and she
thought he&#8217;d argue some more, but he finally just nodded.
&#8220;You&#8217;re right, of course,&#8221; he said.
&#8220;I&#8217;ve just never been all that good at being
unobtrusive.&#160; Denth used to make fun of me for that
too.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna frowned. &#8220;You
were friends, then?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher turned away and fell
silent.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Great,</i> she thought.
<i>One of these days, someone in this Colors-cursed city is going
to tell me the whole truth. I&#8217;ll probably die of
shock.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m going to go
see why the God King is taking so long,&#8221; Vasher said, leaving
the railing. &#8220;I&#8217;ll be back.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She nodded, and he was gone.
She leaned down, partially wishing she hadn&#8217;t relinquished
her seat. Once, she would have felt stifled by the large group of
people, with their shifting bodies and chattering voices.
She&#8217;d grown used to the busy market streets, and so being
surrounded by people wasn&#8217;t as intimidating to her as it once
had been. In addition, there was her Breath. She&#8217;d put some
of it into her shirt, but she&#8217;d left a portion--she needed to
be of at least the First Heightening to pass the gates into the
Court without being questioned.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her Breath let her feel life
like a regular person felt the air. It was always there, cool
against her skin. Having so many people in close proximity left her
feeling just a little intoxicated. So much life, so many hopes and
desires. So much Breath. She closed her eyes, enjoying it,
listening to the arguments of the priests down below rise over the
crowd.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She felt Vasher approach before
he arrived. Not only did he have a lot of Breath, but he was
watching her. And she felt a slight familiarity to those eyes. She
turned, picking him out of the crowd. He stood out far more than
she did, in his darker, ragged clothing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Congratulations,&#8221;
he said as he approached, taking her arm.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;ll soon be an
aunt.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What are you. . .
.&#8221; she trailed off. &#8220;<i>Siri</i>?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your sister is
pregnant,&#8221; he said. &#8220;The priests are going to make an
announcement later this evening. The God King is apparently
remaining back in his palace to celebrate.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna stood, stunned.
<i>Siri. Pregnant.</i> Siri, who was still a little girl in
Vivenna&#8217;s mind, bearing the child of that <i>thing</i> in the
palace. And yet wasn&#8217;t Vivenna now fighting to keep that
thing on his throne?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>No,</i> she thought. <i>I
haven&#8217;t forgiven Hallandren, even if I am learning not to
hate them. I can&#8217;t let Idris go to war and be
destroyed.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She felt a panic.&#160;
Suddenly, all of her plans seemed meaningless. What would the
Hallandren do to her once they had their heir? &#8220;We have to
get her out,&#8221; Vivenna found herself saying. &#8220;Vasher, we
have to rescue her.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He remained quiet.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;<i>Please</i>,
Vasher,&#8221; she whispered. &#8220;She&#8217;s my <i>sister.</i>
I thought to protect her by ending this war. . .but if your hunch
is right, then the God King himself is one of the ones who wishes
to invade Idris. Siri won&#8217;t be safe with him.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;All right,&#8221; Vasher
said. &#8220;I will do what I can.&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna nodded, turning back to
the arena. The priests were withdrawing. &#8220;Where are they
going?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;To their gods,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;To seek the will of the Pantheon in formal
vote.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;About the war?&#8221;
Vivenna asked, feeling a chill.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher nodded. &#8220;It is
time.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong waited beneath his
canopy, a couple of serving men fanning him, a cup of chilled juice
in his hand, lavish snacks spread out to his side.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Blushweaver brought me into
this,</i> he thought. <i>Because she was worried that Hallandren
would be taken by surprise.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priests were consulting
with their gods. He could see several of them kneeling before
Returned, heads bowed. It was the way that government happened in
Hallandren.&#160; The priests argued their opinions then they
sought the will of the Gods. That would become the will of the
Pantheon. That would become the will of Hallandren itself. Only the
God King could veto an action of the Pantheon.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And he had chosen not to attend
this meeting.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>So self-congratulatory on
spawning a child that he couldn&#8217;t even bother to see to the
future of his people?</i> Lightsong thought with annoyance.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar approached. Though he
had been down below with the other high priests, he had offered no
arguments to the court. Llarimar tended to keep his thoughts to
himself.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The high priest knelt before
him. &#8220;Please, give me your will, Lightsong my God.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong didn&#8217;t respond.
He looked up, across the open arena to where Blushweaver&#8217;s
canopy stood, verdant in the dimming evening light.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, God,&#8221; Llarimar
said. &#8220;Please. Give me the knowledge I seek. Should we go to
war with our kinsmen, the Idris? Are they rebels who need to be
quelled?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Priests were already returning
from their prayers. Each held aloft a flag indicating the will of
their God or Goddess. Green for a favorable response. Red for
dissatisfaction with the petition. &#160;In this case green meant
war. So far, five of the returning seven flew green.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your Excellency?&#8221;
Llarimar asked, looking up.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong stood up. <i>They
vote, but what good are their votes?</i> he thought, walking out of
his canopy. <i>They hold no authority. Only two votes really
matter.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;More green. Flags flapped as
priests ran down the walkways. The arena was abuzz with
people.&#160; They could see the inevitable. To the side, Lightsong
could see Llarimar following him. The man must be frustrated. Why
didn&#8217;t he ever show it?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong approached
Blushweaver&#8217;s pavilion. Almost all of the priests had gotten
their answers, and the vast majority of them carried flags of
green. Blushweaver&#8217;s high priestess still knelt before her.
Blushweaver, of course, wanted to wait upon the drama of the
moment.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong stopped outside of
her canopy. Blushweaver reclined inside, watching him with calm
eyes, though he could sense her anxiety. He knew her too well.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Are you going to make
your will known?&#8221; she asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He looked down at the center of
the arena. &#8220;If I resist,&#8221; he said, &#8220;this
declaration will be for naught. The gods can yell war until they
are blue, but <i>I</i> control the armies. If I don&#8217;t allow
them my Lifeless, then Hallandren will not win any wars.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You would defy the will
of the Pantheon?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It is my right to do
so,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Just as it any of them have the same
right.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But you have the
Lifeless.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That doesn&#8217;t mean
I have to do what I&#8217;m told.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;There was a moment of silence
before Blushweaver waved to her priestess. The woman stood then
raised a flag of green and ran down to join the others. This caused
a roar of voices.&#160; The people must know that
Blushweaver&#8217;s political wranglings had left her in a position
of power. Not bad, for a person who had started without command of
a single soldier.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>With her control of that
many troops, she&#8217;ll be an integral part of the planning,
diplomacy, and execution of the war. Blushweaver could come out of
this as one of the most important Returned in the history of the
kingdom.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>And so could I.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I need to think about
this some more,&#8221; Lightsong said, turning to go.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221; Blushweaver
demanded.&#160; &#8220;What about the vote?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong shook his head.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Lightsong!&#8221; she
said as he left. &#8220;Lightsong, you can&#8217;t leave us hanging
like this!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shrugged, glancing back.
&#8220;Actually, I can.&#8221; He smiled. &#8220;I&#8217;m
frustrating like that.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And, with that, he left the
arena, heading back to his palace without giving his vote.</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Fifty-One</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I&#8217;m glad you came back
for me,</i> Nightblood said. <i>It was very lonely in that
closet.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher didn&#8217;t reply as he
walked across the top of the wall surrounding the Court of Gods. It
was late, dark, and quiet, though a few of the palaces still shone
with light. One of those belonged to Lightsong the Bold.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I don&#8217;t like the
darkness,</i> Nightblood said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You mean darkness like
it is now?&#8221; Vasher asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>No. In the closet.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You can&#8217;t even
see.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>A person knows when
they&#8217;re in darkness,</i> Nightblood said. <i>Even when they
can&#8217;t see.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher wasn&#8217;t certain how
to respond to that. He paused atop the wall, overlooking
Lightsong&#8217;s palace. Red and gold. Courageous colors.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You shouldn&#8217;t ignore
me,</i> Nightblood said. <i>I don&#8217;t like it.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher knelt down, studying the
palace. He&#8217;d never met the one called Lightsong, but he had
heard rumors. The most flagrant of the Gods, the most condescending
and mocking.&#160; And this was the person who held the fate of two
kingdoms in his hands.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;There was an easy way to
influence that fate.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>We&#8217;re going to kill
him, aren&#8217;t we?</i> Nightblood said, eagerness sounding in
his voice.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher just stared at the
palace.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>We should kill him,</i>
Nightblood continued. <i>Come on. We should do it. We</i> really
<i>should do it.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why do you care?&#8221;
Vasher whispered. &#8220;You don&#8217;t know him.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>He&#8217;s evil,</i>
Nightblood said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher snorted. &#8220;You
don&#8217;t even know what that is.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;For once, Nightblood was
silent.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That was the great crux of the
problem, the issue that had dominated most of Vasher&#8217;s life.
A thousand Breaths. That was what it took to Awaken an object of
steel and give it sentience. Even Shashara hadn&#8217;t fully
understood the process, though she had first devised it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It took a person who had
reached the Ninth Heightening to Awaken stone or steel. Even still,
this process shouldn&#8217;t have worked. It should have created an
Awakened object with no more of a mind than the tassels on his
cloak.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Nightblood should not be alive.
And yet he was. Shashara had always been the most talented of them.
She&#8217;d been spurred on by the knowledge that she&#8217;d been
shown up by Yesteel. She studied, learned, practiced. And
she&#8217;d done it. She&#8217;d learned to forge the Breath of a
thousand people into a piece of steel, Awaken it to sentience, and
give it a Command. That single Command took on immense power,
providing foundation for the personality of the object
Awakened.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;With Nightblood, she and Vasher
had chosen a simple, yet elegant, Command. &#8220;Destroy
Evil.&#8221; It had seemed like such a logical choice. There was
only one problem, something neither of them had foreseen.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;How was an object of steel--an
object that was so removed from life that it would find the
experience strange and foreign--supposed to understand what
&#8216;evil&#8217; was?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I&#8217;m figuring it
out,</i> Nightblood said. <i>I&#8217;ve had a lot of
practice.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The sword wasn&#8217;t really
to blame. It was a terrible, destructive thing--but it had been
created to destroy. It still didn&#8217;t understand life or what
that life meant. It only knew its Command, and it tried so hard to
fulfill it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>That man down there,</i>
Nightblood said. <i>The one in the palace. He holds the power to
start this war. You don&#8217;t want this war to start.
That&#8217;s why he&#8217;s evil.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why does that make him
evil?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Because he will do what you
don&#8217;t want him to.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We don&#8217;t know that
for certain,&#8221; Vasher said. &#8220;Plus, who is to say that my
will is best?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>It is,</i> Nightblood said.
<i>Let&#8217;s go. Let&#8217;s kill him. You told me war is bad. He
will start a war. He&#8217;s evil. Let&#8217;s kill him.
Let&#8217;s kill him.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The sword was getting excited;
Vasher could feel it--feel the danger in its blade, the twisted
power of Breaths that had been pulled from a living host and shoved
into something unnatural. He could almost feel them breathing out,
black and corrupted, twisting in the wind. Drawing him toward
Lightsong. Pushing him to kill.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; Vasher
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Nightblood sighed. <i>You
locked me in a closet,</i> he reminded. <i>You should
apologize.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m not going to
apologize by killing someone.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Just throw me in there,</i>
Nightblood said. <i>If he&#8217;s evil, he&#8217;ll kill
himself.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;This gave Vasher pause.&#160;
<i>Colors,</i> he thought. The sword seemed to be getting more
subtle each year, though Vasher knew he was just seeing things.
Awakened objects didn&#8217;t change or grow, they simply were what
they were.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was still a good
argument.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Maybe later,&#8221;
Vasher said, turning away from the building.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You are afraid,</i>
Nightblood said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You don&#8217;t know
what fear is,&#8221; Vasher replied.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I do. You don&#8217;t like
killing Returned. You&#8217;re afraid of them.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The sword was wrong, of course.
But, on the outside, Vasher supposed that his hesitance did look a
little like fear. It had been a long time since he&#8217;d dealt
with the Returned.&#160; Too many memories. Too many pains.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He made his way to the God
King&#8217;s palace. The structure was old, far older than the
palaces that surrounded it. Once, this place had been a seaside
watchplace, overlooking the bay. No city. No colors. Just the
stark, black tower. It amused Vasher that it had become the home of
the God King of the Iridescent Tones.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher slid Nightblood into a
strap on his back then jumped from the wall toward the palace.
Awakened straps around his legs gave him strength, letting him leap
some twenty feet.&#160; He slammed against the side of the
building, smooth onyx blocks rubbing his skin. He twitched his
fingers, and the straps on his sleeves grabbed hold of the ledge
above him, holding him tight.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He breathed. The belt at his
waist--touching his skin, like always--Awakened. Color drained from
the kerchief tied beneath his trousers to his leg.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Climb things, then grab
things, then pull me up,&#8221; he Commanded. Three commands in one
Awakening, a difficult task for some. For him, however, it had
become as simple as blinking.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The belt untied itself, showing
it to be far longer than it looked when wrapped. The twenty-five
feet of rope snaked up the side of the building, curling inside of
a window.&#160; Seconds later, the rope hauled Vasher up and into
the air. He released his tassel grips, then pulled Nightblood free
as the rope deposited him inside the building.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He knelt silently, eyes
searching the darkness. The room was unoccupied. Carefully, he drew
back his Breath then wrapped the rope around his arm and held it in
a loose coil. He stalked forward.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Who are we going to
kill?</i> Nightblood asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>It&#8217;s not always about
killing,</i> Vasher said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Vivenna. Is she in
here?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The sword was trying to
interpret his thoughts again. It had trouble with things that
weren&#8217;t fully formed in Vasher&#8217;s head. Most thoughts
passed through his mind like they did those of other people.
Fleeting, momentary. Flashes of image, sound, or scent. Connections
made, then lost, then recovered again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna. The source of a lot of
his troubles. His work in the city had been easier when he&#8217;d
been able to assume that she was working willingly with Denth.
Then, at least, he&#8217;d been able to blame her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Where is she? Is she here?
She doesn&#8217;t like me, but I like her.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher hesitated in the dark
hallway. <i>You do?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Yes. She&#8217;s nice.&#160;
And she&#8217;s pretty.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Nice and pretty--words that
Nightblood didn&#8217;t really understand. He had simply learned
when to use them. Still, the sword did have opinions, and it rarely
lied. It must like Vivenna, even if it couldn&#8217;t explain
why.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>She reminds me of a
Returned,</i> the sword said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Ah,</i> Vasher thought.
<i>Of course. That makes sense.</i> He continued on.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>What?</i> Nightblood
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>She&#8217;s descended from
one,</i> he thought. <i>You can tell by the hair. There&#8217;s a
bit of Returned in her.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Nightblood didn&#8217;t respond
to that, but a part of Vasher could feel it thinking.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He paused at an intersection.
He was pretty sure he knew where the God King&#8217;s chambers
would be. However, a lot of the interior seemed different now. The
fortress had been stark, built with odd twists and turns to confuse
an invading foe. Those remained--all the stonework was the
same--but many of the open dining halls or garrison rooms had been
split into many, smaller rooms, colored with decorations after the
way of the Hallandren rich.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Where would the God
King&#8217;s wife be? If she were pregnant, she&#8217;d be under
the care of servants.&#160; One of the larger quarters, he assumed,
on a higher level. He made his way to a stairwell. Fortunately, it
seemed late enough that there were very few people awake.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>The sister,</i> Nightblood
said. <i>That&#8217;s who you&#8217;re after. You&#8217;re rescuing
Vivenna&#8217;s sister!</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher nodded quietly in the
darkness, feeling his way up the stairs, counting on his BioChroma
to let him know if he approached any people. Though most of his
Breath was stored inside of his clothing, but he had just enough to
awaken the rope and to keep him aware.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You like Vivenna too!</i>
Nightblood said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Nonsense,</i> Vasher
thought.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Then why?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Her sister,</i> he thought.
<i>She&#8217;s a key to all of this, somehow. I realized it
today.&#160; Vivenna mentioned that as soon as her sister arrived,
the real move to begin the war surged. She&#8217;s right.
There&#8217;s something going on.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Nightblood fell silent. That
kind of logical leap was a bit too complex for him. <i>I see,</i>
he said, though Vasher smiled at the confusion he sensed in the
voice.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>At the very least,</i>
Vasher thought, <i>she&#8217;s a very convenient hostage for the
Hallandren. The God King&#8217;s priests--or whoever&#8217;s behind
this--can threaten the girl&#8217;s life, should the war go poorly
for them. She makes an excellent tool.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>One you intend to
remove,</i> Nightblood said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher nodded, reaching the top
of the stairwell and slinking through one of the corridors. He
walked until he sensed someone nearby--a maid servant approaching
through one of the corridors.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher Awakened his rope, stood
in the shadows of an alcove, and waited. As she passed, the rope
shot from the shadows, wrapped around her waist, and yanked her
into the darkness. Vasher had one of his tassel hands wrapped
around her mouth before she could scream.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She squirmed, but the rope tied
her tightly. He felt a little stab of guilt as he loomed over her,
her terrified eyes tearing up. He reached for Nightblood and pulled
the sword slightly out of its sheath. The girl immediately looked
sick. A good sign.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I need to know where the
queen is,&#8221; Vasher said, forcing Nightblood up so that his
hilt touched her cheek. &#8220;You&#8217;re going to tell
me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He held her like that for a
time, watching her squirm, feeling dissatisfied with himself.
Finally, he relaxed the tassels, keeping the sword against her
cheek. She began to vomit, and he turned her to the side.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Tell me,&#8221; he
whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Southern corner,&#8221;
the girl whispered, trembling, spittle on her cheek. &#8220;This
floor.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher nodded, then tied her up
with the rope, gagged her, and took his Breath back. He pushed
Nightblood back into the sheath then rushed down the hallway.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You won&#8217;t kill a god
who plans to march his armies to war?</i> Nightblood asked. <i>But
you&#8217;ll choke a young woman near to death?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was a complicated statement
for the sword. However, it lacked the accusation that a human would
have put into the words. To Nightblood, it wasn&#8217;t an attack,
but a question.&#160; He was trying to understand.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I don&#8217;t understand my
morality either,</i> Vasher thought. <i>I&#8217;d suggest you avoid
confusing yourself.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He found the place easily. It
was guarded by a large group of brutish men who seemed rather out
of place in the fine palace hallways.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher paused. <i>Something
strange is going on here.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>What do you mean?</i>
Nightblood asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He hadn&#8217;t meant to
address the sword, but that was the trouble with an object that
could read minds. Any thoughts Vasher formed in his head,
Nightblood thought were directed at it. After all, in the
sword&#8217;s opinion, <i>everything</i> really should have been
directed toward it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Guards at the door.&#160;
Soldiers, not servants. So they had already taken her captive. Was
she really even pregnant? Were the priests just securing their
power?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That many men would be
impossible to kill without making noise. The best he could hope for
was to take them fast. Maybe they were far enough from anyone else
that a little bit of fighting wouldn&#8217;t be heard.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He sat for a few minutes,
grinding his teeth. Then, finally, he stepped up and tossed
Nightblood into the middle of the men. &#160;He&#8217;d let them
fight each other and then be ready to stop any who weren&#8217;t
taken into the Sword&#8217;s influence.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Nightblood clanged to the
stones. All of the men&#8217;s eyes turned toward it. And, at that
moment, something grabbed Vasher around the shoulder and yanked him
backward.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He cursed, spinning, throwing
his hands up to wrestle with whatever had him. An Awakened rope.
Men started to fight behind him. Vasher grunted, pulling out the
knife in his boot, then slicing the Awakened rope. A body tackled
him as he got free, however, and he was thrown back against the
wall.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He grabbed his attacker by the
face with one of his arm tassels, then twisted the man back and
threw him into the wall. Another figured charged him from behind,
but Vasher&#8217;s Awakened cloak caught that one, tripping
him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Grab things other than
me,&#8221; Vasher said quickly, snatching the cloak of one of the
fallen men. That cloak whipped about, taking down another man, whom
Vasher then killed with a swipe of his dagger. He kicked another
man, throwing him backward, opening a pathway.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher lunged, making for
Nightblood, but three more figures burst out the rooms around him,
cutting him off. They were the same kind of brutish men that were
now fighting over the sword. Figures were all around. Dozens of
them. Vasher kicked out, breaking a leg, but one man pulled
Vasher&#8217;s cloak off with a lucky twist.&#160; Others piled on
top of him. And then, another Awakened rope snapped out, tying his
legs together.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher reached for his vest.
&#8220;Your Breath to--&#8221; he began, trying to draw in some
Breath to use for an attack, but three men grabbed his hand and
pulled it away. Within seconds, he was wrapped up in the Awakened
rope. His cloak still fought against three men who were struggling
to cut it up, but Vasher himself was pinned.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A figure left the room to his
left.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Denth,&#8221; Vasher
spat, struggling.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My good friend,&#8221;
Denth said, nodding for one of his lackeys--the one known as Tonk
Fah--to move down the hallway toward the queen&#8217;s room. Denth
knelt beside Vasher. &#8220;Very good to see you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher spat again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Still as eloquent as
ever, I see,&#8221; Denth said with a sigh. &#8220;You know the
best thing about you, Vasher? You&#8217;re solid. Predictable. I
guess I am too, in away. Hard to live as long as we have without
falling into patterns, eh?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher didn&#8217;t reply,
though he did try to yell as some men gagged him. A piece of him
noticed with satisfaction that he&#8217;d taken down a good dozen
opponents before they&#8217;d managed to force him down.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth eyed the fallen soldiers.
&#8220;Mercenaries,&#8221; he said. &#8220;No risk is too great,
assuming the pay is right.&#8221; He said it with a twinkle in his
eye. Then he leaned down, his jovialness gone as he met
Vasher&#8217;s eyes. &#8220;And you were always to be <i>my</i>
payment, Vasher. I owe you. For Shashara, even still. We&#8217;ve
been waiting, hiding in the palace here for a good two weeks,
knowing that eventually the good Princes Vivenna would send you to
save her sister.&#8221;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tonk Fah returned with a bundle
held in a blanket. Nightblood.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth eyed it. &#8220;Throw
that out somewhere in the city,&#8221; he said, grimacing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t know,
Denth,&#8221; Tonk Fah said. &#8220;I kind of think we should keep
it. It could be very useful. . . .&#8221; The beginnings of the
lust began to show in his eyes, the desire to draw Nightblood, to
use the sword. To destroy evil. Or, really, just to destroy.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth stood and snatched the
bundle away. Then he smacked Tonk Fah on the back of the head.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ow!&#8221; Tonk Fah
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth rolled his eyes.&#160;
&#8220;Stop whining; I just saved your life. Go check on the queen
then clean up that mess. I&#8217;ll take care of the sword
myself.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You always get so nasty
when Vasher&#8217;s around,&#8221; Tonk Fah grumbled, waddling
away. Denth wrapped Nightblood up securely; Vasher watched, hoping
to see the lust appear in Denth&#8217;s eyes. Unfortunately, Denth
was far too strong-willed to be taken by the sword. He had nearly
as much history with it as Vasher did.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Take away all his
Awakened clothing,&#8221; Denth said to his men, walking away.
&#8220;Then hang him up in that room over there. He and I are going
to have a long talk about what he did to my
sister.&#8221;<br clear="all" style=
'page-break-before:always' /></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Fifty-Two</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong sat in one of the
rooms of his palace, surrounded by finery, cup of wine in his
hand.&#160; Despite the very late hour, servants moved in and out,
piling up furniture, paintings, vases, and small sculptures.
Anything that could be moved.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The riches sat in heaps.
Lightsong lounged back on his couch, ignoring empty plates of food
and broken cups, which he refused to let his servants take
away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A pair of servants entered,
carrying a red and gold couch. They propped it up by the far wall,
nearly toppling a pile of rugs. Lightsong watched them leave then
downed the rest of his wine. He dropped the empty cup to the floor
beside the others, and held out his hand for another full one. A
servant provided, as always.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He wasn&#8217;t drunk. He
couldn&#8217;t get drunk.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Do you ever feel,&#8221;
Lightsong said, &#8220;like something is going on? Something far
greater than you are? Like. . .a painting you can only see the
corner of, no matter how you squint and search?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Every day, your
grace,&#8221; Llarimar said. He sat on a stool beside
Lightsong&#8217;s couch. As always, he watched events calmly,
though Lightsong could sense the man&#8217;s disapproval as another
group of servants piled several marble figurines in the corner.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;How do you deal with
it?&#8221; Lightsong asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I have faith, your
grace, that someone understands.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Not me, I hope,&#8221;
Lightsong noted.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You are part of it. But
it is much larger than you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong frowned to himself,
watching more servants enter. Soon, the room would be so piled with
his wealth that people wouldn&#8217;t be able to move in and out.
&#8220;It&#8217;s odd, isn&#8217;t it,&#8221; Lightsong said,
gesturing toward a pile of paintings. &#8220;Arranged like this,
none of it looks beautiful anymore. When you put it together in
piles, it just seems like junk.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar raised an eyebrow.
&#8220;The value in something relates to how it is treated, your
grace. If you see these items as junk, then they are, regardless of
what someone else would pay for them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There&#8217;s a lesson
in there somewhere, isn&#8217;t there?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar shrugged. &#8220;I
<i>am</i> a priest, after all.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong snorted, then waved
toward the servants. &#8220;That&#8217;s enough,&#8221; he said.
&#8220;You can go now.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The servants, growing more
resigned to being banished, left the room. Soon, Lightsong and
Llarimar were alone with piles and piles of riches, all stolen from
other parts of the palace and brought into this one room.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar surveyed the
mounds.&#160; &#8220;So what <i>is</i> the point of all this, your
grace?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;This is what I mean to
them,&#8221; Lightsong said, gulping down some more wine.
&#8220;The people. They&#8217;ll give up their riches for me. They
sacrifice the Breath of their souls to keep me alive. I suspect
that, even, they would die for me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar nodded quietly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And,&#8221; Lightsong
said, &#8220;all I&#8217;m expected to do is choose their fates for
them. Do we go to war or do we remain at peace? What do you
think?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I could argue for either
side, your grace,&#8221; Llarimar said. &#8220;It would be easy to
sit here and condemn the war on mere principle. War is a terrible,
terrible thing. And yet, it seems that few great accomplishments in
history ever occur without the unfortunate truth of military
action. Even the Manywar, which caused so much destruction, can be
pointed to as the foundation of modern Hallandren power in the
inner sea area.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong nodded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But,&#8221; Llarimar
continued. &#8220;To invade our brethren? &#160;Despite
provocation, I cannot help but think that attacking is too extreme.
How much death, how much suffering, are we willing to cause simply
to prove that we won&#8217;t be pushed around?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And what would you
decide?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Fortunately, I
don&#8217;t have to.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And if you were forced
to?&#8221; Lightsong asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar sat for a moment.
Then, carefully, he removed the large miter from his head,
revealing a head of thinning black hair plastered to the skull with
sweat. He set aside the ceremonial headgear.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I speak to you as a
friend, Lightsong, not your priest,&#8221; Llarimar said quietly.
&#8220;The priest cannot influence his god for fear of disrupting
the future.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong nodded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And as a friend,&#8221;
Llarimar said, &#8220;I honestly have trouble deciding what I would
do. I didn&#8217;t argue on the floor of the court.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You rarely do,&#8221;
Lightsong said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m
worried,&#8221; Llarimar said, wiping his brow with a kerchief,
shaking his head. &#8220;I don&#8217;t think we can ignore the
threat to our kingdom. The fact of the matter is, Idris <i>is</i> a
rebel faction living within our borders. We&#8217;ve ignored them
for years, suffering under their almost tyrannical control of the
northern passes.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So you&#8217;re for
attacking?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar paused, then shook his
head. &#8220;No. No, I don&#8217;t think that even Iris&#8217;s
rebellion would justify the slaughter it would take to get those
passes back.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Great,&#8221; Lightsong
said flatly. &#8220;So, you think we should go to war, but not
attack.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Actually, yes,&#8221;
Llarimar said. &#8220;We declare war, we make a show of force, and
we frighten them into realizing just how precarious their position
is. If we then hold peace talks, I&#8217;ll bet we could forge more
favorable treaties for use of the passes.&#160; They formally
renounce claim on our throne; we give them official
sovereignty.&#160; Wouldn&#8217;t we both get what we
want?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong sat thoughtfully.
&#8220;I don&#8217;t know,&#8221; he said. &#8220;That&#8217;s a
very reasonable solution, but I don&#8217;t think those who are
calling for war would accept it. It seems that we&#8217;re missing
something, Scoot. Why now? Why are tensions so high after the
wedding, which <i>should</i> have unified us?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t know, your
grace,&#8221; Llarimar said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong smiled, standing.
&#8220;Well then,&#8221; he said, eying his high priest.
&#8220;Let&#8217;s find out.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri would have been annoyed if
she hadn&#8217;t been so terrified. She sat alone in the black
bedchamber. It felt wrong for Susebron to not be there with
her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She&#8217;d hoped that maybe he
would still be allowed come to her when night fell. But, of course,
he didn&#8217;t arrive. Whatever the priests were planning, it
didn&#8217;t require her to actually be pregnant. Not now that
they&#8217;d played their hand and locked her up.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The door creaked, and she sat
up on the bed, hope sparking. But it was only the guard checking on
her again. One of the crass, soldier-like men who had been guarding
her in recent hours. <i>Why did they change to these men?</i> she
wondered as the guard closed the door. <i>What happened to the
Lifeless and the priests who were watching me before?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It didn&#8217;t really matter.
She lay back down on the bed, staring up at the canopy, still
dressed in her fine gown. Her mind kept flashing to her first week
in the palace, when she&#8217;d been locked inside for her
&#8216;Wedding Jubilation.&#8217; It had been difficult enough
then, and she&#8217;d known when it would be over. Now she
didn&#8217;t even have an assurance that she&#8217;d live through
the next few days.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>No,</i> she thought.
&#160;<i>They&#8217;ll keep me around for a few more months. Long
enough for my &#8216;baby&#8217; to be born. I&#8217;m insurance.
If something goes wrong, they&#8217;ll still need me to provide an
heir.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That was little comfort. The
thought of six months cooped up inside the palace--not allowed to
see anyone lest they see that she wasn&#8217;t really pregnant--was
frightening enough to make her want to scream.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But what could she
do?&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Hope in Susebron,</i> she
thought. <i>I taught him to read, and I gave him the determination
that he needed to break free from his priests.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>That will have to be
enough.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your grace,&#8221;
Llarimar said, his voice hesitant, &#8220;are you certain you want
to do this?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong crouched down,
peeking through the bushes toward Mercystar&#8217;s palace. Most of
the windows were dark. That was good. However, she still had a
number of guards patrolling the palace. She was afraid of another
break in.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And rightly so.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your grace?&#8221;
Llarimar asked, sounding more nervous. The portly high priest knelt
on the grass beside Lightsong, the darkness having masked their
approach.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I should have brought a
sword,&#8221; Lightsong said thoughtfully.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You don&#8217;t know how
to use one, your grace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We don&#8217;t know
that,&#8221; Lightsong said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your grace, this is
foolishness. Let&#8217;s go back to your palace. If we <i>must</i>
see what is in those tunnels, we can hire someone from the city to
sneak in.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That would take too
long,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#160;A guard patrol passed their side
of the palace. &#8220;You ready?&#8221; he asked once the patrol
had passed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then wait here,&#8221;
Lightsong said, taking off in a dash toward the palace.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar let out an
uncharacteristic curse from behind, and Lightsong heard the bushes
rustle. He didn&#8217;t look back; he just kept running toward the
open window. Like in most Returned palaces, the doorways and
windows were open. The tropical climate invited such designs.
Lightsong reached the side of the building, feeling exhilarated. He
climbed up through the window, then reached a hand out to help
Llarimar when he arrived. The hefty priest puffed and sweated, but
Lightsong managed to pull him up and into the room.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They took a few moments,
Llarimar resting with his back to the outer wall, gasping for
breath.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You really need to
exercise some more, Scoot,&#8221; Lightsong said, creeping toward
the doorway and peeking out into the hall beyond.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar didn&#8217;t answer.
He just sat, puffing, shaking his head as if he couldn&#8217;t
believe what was happening.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I wonder why the man who
attacked the building didn&#8217;t come in through the
window,&#8221; Lightsong said.&#160; Then he noticed that the
guards standing at the inner doorway had an easy view of this
particular room. <i>Ah,</i> he thought. <i>Well, then. Time for the
backup plan.</i> Lightsong stood up, walking out into the hallway.
Llarimar followed, then jumped when he saw the guards. They had
similar expressions of amazement on their faces.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Hello,&#8221; Lightsong
said to the guards, then turned from them and walked down the
hallway.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Wait!&#8221; one
said.&#160; &#8220;Stop!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong turned toward them,
frowning. &#8220;You dare command a god?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They froze. Then they glanced
at each other. One took off running in the opposite direction.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They&#8217;re going to
alert others!&#8221; Llarimar said, rushing up. &#8220;We&#8217;ll
be caught.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then we should move
quickly!&#8221; Lightsong said, taking off in another run. He
smiled, hearing Llarimar grudgingly break into a jog behind him.
They quickly reached the trap door.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong knelt, feeling around
for a few moments before finding the hidden clasp. He triumphantly
pulled the trap door open, then pointed down. Llarimar shook his
head in resignation, then climbed down the ladder into darkness.
Lightsong grabbed a lamp off the wall and followed. The remaining
guard--unable to interfere with a god--simply watched with
concern.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The bottom wasn&#8217;t very
far down. Lightsong found a tired Llarimar sitting on some boxes in
what was obviously a small storage cellar.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Congratulations, your
grace,&#8221; Llarimar said. &#8220;We&#8217;ve found the secret
hiding place of their flour.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong snorted, moving
through the chamber, poking at the walls. &#8220;Something
living,&#8221; he said, pointing at one wall. &#8220;That
direction. I can feel it with my life sense.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar raised an eyebrow,
standing. They pulled back a few boxes, and behind them was a
tunnel cut into the wall. Lightsong smiled, then crawled down
through it, pushing the lamp ahead of him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m not sure
I&#8217;ll fit,&#8221; Llarimar said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;If I fit, you
will,&#8221; Lightsong said, voice muffled by the close confines.
He heard another sigh from Llarimar, followed by shuffling as the
portly man entered the hole. Eventually, Lightsong passed out
another hole into a much larger tunnel. He stood up, feeling self
satisfied as Llarimar squeezed through. &#8220;There,&#8221;
Lightsong said, throwing a lever and letting a grate drop down over
the opening. &#8220;They&#8217;ll have trouble following
now!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And we&#8217;ll have
trouble escaping,&#8221; Llarimar said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Escape?&#8221; Lightsong
said, raising his lamp, inspecting the tunnel. &#8220;Why would we
want to do that?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Pardon me, your
grace,&#8221; Llarimar said. &#8220;But it seems to me that you are
getting far too much enjoyment from this experience.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, I&#8217;m called
Lightsong the <i>Bold</i>,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;It feels
good to finally be living up to the title. Now, hush. I can still
feel life nearby.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The tunnel was obviously
man-made, and looked like Lightsong expected a mine shaft
might.&#160; There were several branches. The life was straight
ahead. Lightsong didn&#8217;t turn that direction, but instead
turned left, toward a tunnel that sloped downward. He followed it
for a few minutes, judging the trajectory.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Figured it out
yet?&#8221; Lightsong asked, turning to Llarimar.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The Lifeless
barracks,&#8221; Llarimar said. &#8220;If this tunnel continues
like this, it will lead directly to them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong nodded. &#8220;Why
would they need a secret tunnel to the barracks? Any god can go
there whenever he wants.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar shook his head, and
they continued down the tunnel. Sure enough, after a short time,
they arrived at a trap door which--when pushed up--led into one of
the dark, Lifeless warehouses. Lightsong shivered, looking out at
the endless rows of legs, barely illuminated by his lamp. He pulled
his head back down, closed the trap door, then followed the tunnel
around a bit more.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It goes in a
square,&#8221; he said quietly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;With doors up into each
of the Lifeless barracks I&#8217;ll bet,&#8221; Llarimar said. He
reached out, taking a piece of dirt and crumbling it between his
fingers. &#8220;This tunnel seems newer than the one we were in up
above.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong nodded. &#8220;We
should keep moving,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Those guards in
Mercystar&#8217;s palace know we&#8217;re down here. I don&#8217;t
know who they&#8217;ll tell, but I&#8217;d rather finish exploring
before we get chased out.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar shivered visibly at
that. They walked back up the steep tunnel to the main one
they&#8217;d left behind. Lightsong still felt life down a side
tunnel, but he chose the other branch, exploring. It soon became
apparent that this one diverged and twisted numerous times.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Tunnels to some of the
other Returned palaces,&#8221; he guessed, poking at a wooden beam
used to support the shaft. &#8220;Old--much older than the tunnel
by the barracks.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar nodded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;All right, then,&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;Time to find out where the main tunnel
goes.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar followed as Lightsong
approached the main tunnel. Lightsong closed his eyes, trying to
determine how close the life was. It felt. . .distant. Almost
beyond his ability to sense. If everything else down in the tunnels
hadn&#8217;t been rock and dirt, he probably wouldn&#8217;t have
even noticed the life in the first place. He nodded to Llarimar,
then continued down the tunnel, stepping quietly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Did it seem like he was capable
of moving more silently than he should? Did he have skill in
sneaking about? He was certainly better at it than Llarimar. Of
course, a tumbling boulder was probably better at moving quietly
than Llarimar, considering his bulky clothing and his puffing
exhalations.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The tunnel went on for a time
without branches. Lightsong looked up, trying to judge what was
above them. <i>The God King&#8217;s palace?</i> he guessed. He
couldn&#8217;t be certain; it was difficult to judge direction
beneath the ground.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He felt. . .excited.&#160;
Thrilled. This was something no god was supposed to do. Sneaking at
night, moving through secret tunnels, looking for secrets and
clues. <i>Odd,</i> he thought. <i>They give us everything they
think that we might want; they glut us with sensation and
experience. And yet the real feelings--fear, anxiety,
excitement--are completely lost to us.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He smiled. In the distance, he
could hear voices. He turned down the lamp and crept forward extra
quietly, waving for Llarimar to stay behind.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;. . .have him up
above,&#8221; a masculine voice was saying. &#8220;He came for the
princess&#8217;s sister, as I said he would.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You have what you want,
then,&#8221; said another voice. &#8220;Honestly, you pay far too
much attention to that one.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Do not underestimate
Vasher,&#8221; first voice said. &#8220;He has accomplished more in
his life than a hundred men, and has done more for the good of all
people than you will ever be able to understand.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Silence.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Aren&#8217;t you
planning to kill him?&#8221; said second voice.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Silence.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;re a strange
one, Denth,&#8221; second voice said. &#8220;However, our goal is
accomplished.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You people don&#8217;t
have your war yet.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We will.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong crouched beside a
small pile of rubble. He could see light up ahead, but
couldn&#8217;t distinguish much beyond some moving shadows. His
fortune seemed remarkably good, though it was very late at
night--anyone up was likely to be about clandestine activities.
Beyond that, today <i>had</i> been the day that the vote had
happened.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I have a job for
you,&#8221; second voice said. &#8220;We&#8217;ve got someone I
need you to interrogate.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Too bad,&#8221; first
voice said, growing distant. &#8220;I&#8217;ve got an old friend to
torture. I just had to pause to dispose of his monstrosity of a
sword.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Denth! Come back
here!&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You didn&#8217;t hire
me, little man,&#8221; first voice said, growing fainter. &#8220;If
you want to make me do something, go get your boss. Until then, you
know where to find me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Silence. And then, something
moved behind Lightsong. He spun, and could just barely make out
Llarimar creeping forward. Lightsong waved him back, joined
him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221; Llarimar
whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Voices, ahead,&#8221;
Lightsong whispered back, the tunnel dark around them.
&#8220;Talking about the war.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Who were they?&#8221;
Llarimar asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t
know,&#8221; Lightsong whispered. &#8220;But I&#8217;m going to
find out. Wait here while I--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A voice screamed.&#160;
Lightsong jumped immediately. The sound came from the place where
he had heard the voices, and it seemed like. . . .</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Let go of me!&#8221;
Blushweaver yelled. &#8220;What do you think you&#8217;re doing!
I&#8217;m a goddess!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong stood up sharply. A
voice said something back to Blushweaver, but Lightsong was now too
far down the tunnel to hear.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You will let me
go!&#8221; Blushweaver yelled. &#8220;I--&#8221; she cut off
sharply, crying out in pain.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong&#8217;s heart was
pounding.&#160; He took a step.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your grace!&#8221;
Llarimar said, standing. &#8220;We should go for help!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We <i>are</i>
help,&#8221; Lightsong said. He took a deep breath.
Then--surprising himself--he charged down the tunnel. He quickly
approached the light, turning around a corner and coming into a
section of tunnel that had been worked. In seconds, he was running
on a smooth stone floor and burst into what appeared to be a
dungeon or a cellar.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver sat tied to a
chair. A group of men wearing the God King&#8217;s priestly robes
stood around her. There were several uninformed soldiers in the
room Blushweaver&#8217;s lip was bleeding, and she was crying
through a gag that had been placed on her mouth.&#160; She wore a
beautiful sleeping robe, but it was dirty and disheveled.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The men in the room looked up
in surprise, obviously shocked to see someone come up behind
them.&#160; Lightsong took advantage of this shock and threw his
weight against the soldier nearest to him. He sent the man flying
back into the wall, Lightsong&#8217;s superior size and weight
knocking him aside with ease. Lightsong knelt down and quickly
pulled the fallen soldier&#8217;s sword from its sheath.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Aha!&#8221; Lightsong
said, lowering the weapon at the men in front of him.
&#8220;Who&#8217;s first?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The soldiers regarded him
dumbly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I say, you!&#8221;
Lightsong said, lunging at the next-closest guard.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He missed the man by a good
three inches, fumbling and off-balance from the lunge. The guard
finally realized what was going on and pulled out his own sword.
The priests backed against the wall. Blushweaver blinked her tears,
looking shocked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The soldier nearest Lightsong
attacked, and Lightsong raised his blade awkwardly, trying to
block, doing a horrible job of it. The guard at his feet suddenly
threw himself at Lightsong&#8217;s legs, toppling him to the
ground. Then one of the standing guards thrust his sword into
Lightsong&#8217;s shoulder.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The shoulder bled blood as red
as that of any mortal. Suddenly, Lightsong knew pain. Pain greater
than, literally, he&#8217;d ever known in his short life.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He screamed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He saw, through tears, Llarimar
heroically trying to tackle a guard from behind, but the attack was
almost as poorly-executed as Lightsong&#8217;s own. The soldiers
stepped away, several guarding the tunnel, another holding his
bloodied blade toward Lightsong&#8217;s throat.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Funny,</i> Lightsong
thought, gritting his teeth against the pain. <i>That was not at
all how I imagined this going.</i><br clear="all" style=
'page-break-before:always' /></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Fifty-Three</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna waited up for Vasher.
He did not return.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She paced in the small,
one-room hideout--the sixth in a series of quick moves, never more
than a few days in each location. It was unadorned and held only
their bedrolls, Vasher&#8217;s pack, and a single flickering
candle.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher would have chastised her
for wasting the candle. For a man who held a king&#8217;s fortune
in Breaths, he was surprisingly frugal.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She paced some more.&#160; She
knew that she should probably just go to sleep. Vasher could take
care of himself. It seemed that the only one in the city who
couldn&#8217;t do <i>that</i> was Vivenna.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And yet he&#8217;d told her he
was only going to go on a quick scouting mission. Though he seemed
like such a solitary person, he apparently understood her desire to
be a part of things, so he usually let her know where he was going
and when to expect him back. She&#8217;d never waited up for Denth
to come back from a night mission.&#160; She&#8217;d been working
with Vasher for a fraction of the time she&#8217;d spent with the
others. Why did she care so much now?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Though she had felt like
she was Denth&#8217;s friend, she hadn&#8217;t really cared about
him. He&#8217;d been amusing and charming, but distant. Vasher was.
. .well, who he was. There was no guile with him. He wore no false
mask or face. She&#8217;d only met one other person like that. Her
sister, the one who would bear the God King&#8217;s child.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Lord of Colors!</i> Vivenna
thought, still pacing. <i>How did things turn out to be such a
mess?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri awoke with a start. There
was shouting coming from outside her room. She roused herself
quickly, moving over to the door and putting her ear to it. She
could hear fighting. If she were going to run, perhaps now would be
the time. She rattled the door, hoping for some reason that it was
unlocked. It wasn&#8217;t.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She cursed. Something was
obviously happening in the palace. She&#8217;d heard fighting
before--screaming, and men dying. And now again. <i>Someone trying
to rescue me, perhaps?</i> she thought hopefully. <i>But
who?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The door shook suddenly, and
she jumped back as it opened. Tridees, high priest of the God King,
stood in the doorway. &#160;&#160;&#8220;Quickly, child,&#8221; he
said, waving to her. &#8220;You must come with me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri looked desperately for a
way to run. She backed away from the priest, and he cursed quietly,
waving for a couple of soldiers in city guard uniforms to rush in
and grab her. She screamed for help.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Quiet, child!&#8221;
Tridees said. &#8220;You fool! We&#8217;re trying to help
you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;His lies rang flat in her ears,
and she struggled as the soldiers pulled her from the room.
Outside, bodies were lying on the ground, some in guard uniforms,
others in nondescript armor, still others having grey skin.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She heard fighting down the
hallway, and she screamed toward it as the soldiers roughly pulled
her away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Old Chaps, they called him.
Those who called him anything, that was.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He sat in his little boat,
almost more of a canoe, moving across the dark water of the bay.
Night fishing. During the day, one had to pay a tariff to fish in
T&#8217;Telir waters. Well, technically, during the night you were
supposed to pay too.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But the thing about night was,
nobody could see you. Old Chaps chuckled to himself, lowering his
net over the side of the boat. The waters made their characteristic
lap, lap, lap against the side of the boat. Dark. He liked it dark.
Lap, lap, lap.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Occasionally, he was given
better work. Taking bodies for one of the city&#8217;s slum lords,
weighting them down with bits of rock tied in a sack to the foot,
then tossing them into the bay. There were probably hundreds of
them down there, floating in the current. Like a party of
skeletons, having a dance. Dance, dance, dance.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;No bodies tonight, though. Too
bad. That meant fish. Free fish, he didn&#8217;t have to pay
tariffs on. And free fish were good fish.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>No. . . .</i> a voice said
to him. <i>A little bit more to your right.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The sea talked to him
sometimes. Coaxed him this way or that. He happily made his way in
the direction indicated. He was out on the waters almost every
night. They should know him pretty well by now.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Good. Drop the net.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He did so. It wasn&#8217;t too
deep in this part of the bay. He could drag the net behind his
boat, pull the weighted bits along the bottom, catching the smaller
fish that came up into the shallows to feed. Not the best fish, but
the night was looking too dangerous to be out far from the
shore.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;His net struck something. He
grumbled, yanking it. Sometimes, it got caught on debris or coral.
It was heavy. Too heavy. He pulled the net over the side, then
undid the shield on his lantern, risking a bit of light.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A sword lay in the bottom of
his boat. Silvery, with a black handle.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lap, lap, lap.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Ah, very nice,</i> the voice
said, much louder now. <i>I hate the water. So wet and icky down
there.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Transfixed, Old Chaps reached
out, picking up the weapon. It felt heavy in his hand.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I don&#8217;t suppose
you&#8217;d want to go destroy some evil, would you?</i> the voice
said. <i>I&#8217;m not really sure what that means, to be honest.
I&#8217;ll just trust you to decide.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Old Chaps smiled.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Oh, all right,</i> the sword
said. <i>You can admire me a little bit longer, if you must. After
that, though, we really need to get back to shore.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher awoke groggily.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He was tied by his wrists to a
hook in the ceiling of a stone room. The rope that had been used to
tie him, he noticed, was the same one he&#8217;d used to tie up the
maid. It had been drained completely of color.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;In fact, everything around him
was a uniform grey. He had been stripped save for a grey pair of
undershorts. He groaned, his arms feeling numb from the awkward
angle of being hung by his wrists.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He wasn&#8217;t gagged, but he
had no Breath remaining--he&#8217;d used the last of it in the
fight, to Awaken the cloak of the fallen man. He groaned.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A lantern burned in corner. A
figure stood next to it. &#8220;And so we both return,&#8221; Denth
said quietly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher didn&#8217;t reply.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I still owe you for
Arsteel&#8217;s death too,&#8221; Denth said quietly. &#8220;I want
to know how you killed him.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;In a duel,&#8221; Vasher
said with a croaking voice.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You didn&#8217;t beat
him in a duel, Vasher,&#8221; Denth said, stepping forward.
&#8220;I know it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then maybe I snuck up
and stabbed him from behind,&#8221; Vasher said. &#8220;It&#8217;s
what he deserved.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth backhanded him across the
face, causing him to swing in bonds. &#8220;Arsteel was a good
man!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Once,&#8221; Vasher
said, tasting blood. &#8220;Once, we were all good men, Denth.
Once.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth was quiet. &#8220;You
think your little quest here will undo what you&#8217;ve
done?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Better than becoming a
mercenary,&#8221; Vasher said. &#8220;Working for whomever will
pay.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I am what you made of
me,&#8221; Denth said quietly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That girl trusted you.
Vivenna.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth turned, eyes darkened,
the lanternlight not quite reaching his face. &#8220;She was
supposed to.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;She liked you. Then you
killed her friend.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Things got a little out
of hand.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They always do, with
you,&#8221; Vasher said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth raised an eyebrow, face
growing amused in the wan light. &#8220;<i>I</i> get out of hand,
Vasher? Me? When&#8217;s the last time <i>I</i> started a war?
Slaughtered tens of thousands? Killed my best friend&#8217;s
sister?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher didn&#8217;t
reply.&#160; What argument could he make? That Shashara had needed
to die? When she&#8217;d revealed the cheaper Commands to make
Lifeless, that had been bad enough. What if the way of making
Awakened steel, like Nightblood, had entered the Manywar?&#160;
Undead monsters slaughtering people with Awakened swords crying for
blood.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;None of that mattered to a
brother who had seen his sister murdered by Vasher&#8217;s
hand.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I was going to let Tonk
Fah have you,&#8221; Denth said, turning away again. &#8220;He
likes hurting things. &#160;It&#8217;s a weakness he has. We all
have weaknesses. With my direction, he&#8217;s been able to keep it
only to animals.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth turned to him, holding up
a knife. &#8220;I&#8217;ve always wondered what he finds so
enjoyable about causing pain.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dawn was approaching.&#160;
Vivenna threw off her blanket, unable to sleep. She dressed,
frustrated, but not sure why. Vasher was probably just fine. He was
likely out carousing somewhere.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Of course,</i> she thought
wryly, <i>carousing. That sounds</i> just <i>like him.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He&#8217;d never stayed out an
entire night before. Something had happened. And the only person in
the city who knew enough of his movements to realize the danger was
Vivenna. She slowed as she pulled on her belt, glancing over at
Vasher&#8217;s pack and the change of clothing he had inside of
it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Every single thing
I&#8217;ve tried since I left Idris has failed miserably,</i> she
thought, continuing to dress. <i>I failed as a revolutionary, I
failed as a beggar, and I failed as a sister. What am I supposed to
do? Go find him? I don&#8217;t even know where to start.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She looked away from the pack.
Failure. It wasn&#8217;t something she&#8217;d been accustomed to,
back in Idris. Everything she&#8217;d tried there had turned out
well.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Maybe that is what this is
all about,</i> she thought, sitting. <i>My hatred of Hallandren. My
insistence on saving Siri, on taking her place.</i> When her father
had chosen Siri over her, it had been the first time in her life
that she could remember feeling that she wasn&#8217;t good enough.
So she&#8217;d come to T&#8217;Telir, determined to prove that the
problem hadn&#8217;t been with her. It&#8217;d had been with
someone else.&#160; Anyone else. As long as Vivenna wasn&#8217;t
flawed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hallandren had repeatedly
proved that she was. And now that she&#8217;d tried so many things
and failed, she found it hard to act. There was a chance that by
acting she might fail--and that was so daunting that doing nothing
seemed preferable.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It seemed the crowning
arrogance in Vivenna&#8217;s life. She bowed her head. One last bit
of feathered hypocrisy to adorn her hair.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You want to be
competent?</i> she thought. <i>You want to learn to be in control
of what goes on around you, rather than just be pushed around? Then
you&#8217;ll have learn to deal with failure.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was frightening, but she
knew it was true. She stood up, walking to Vasher&#8217;s
duffle-like pack. &#160;She pulled out a wrinkled overshirt and a
pair of leggings. Both had ties hanging from the cuffs.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna put them on.&#160;
Vasher&#8217;s spare cloak followed. It smelled like him, and was
cut--like his other one--into the vague shape of a man. She
understood, now, one of the reasons his clothing looked so
tattered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She pulled out a couple of
colorful handkerchiefs. &#8220;Protect me,&#8221; she Commanded the
cloak, imagining it grabbing people who tried to attack her. She
placed a hand on the sleeve of the shirt. **</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Upon call,&#8221; she
Commanded, &#8220;become my fingers and grip that which I
must.&#8221; She&#8217;d only heard Vasher give the Command a
couple of times, and she still wasn&#8217;t quite sure how to
visualize what she wanted the shirt to do. She imagined the tassels
closing around her hands like she had seen them do for Vasher.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She Awakened the leggings,
commanding them to strengthen her legs. The leg tassels began to
twist, and she raised each foot in turn, letting the tassels wrap
around the bottoms. Her stance felt more firm, the leggings pulled
tight against her skin. She smiled, nodding.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Finally, she tied on the sword
Vasher had given her. She still didn&#8217;t know how to use it,
though she could hold it properly. It felt right to bring
it.&#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Then she left.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong had rarely seen a
Goddess cry.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It wasn&#8217;t supposed
to go this way,&#8221; Blushweaver said, heedless of the tears
streaming down her cheeks. &#8220;I had things under
control.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The dungeons beneath the God
King&#8217;s palace were in a small, cramped room. Cages--like one
might use for animals--lined both walls. They were large enough to
hold a god.&#160; Lightsong couldn&#8217;t decide if that were
coincidence or not.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blushweaver sniffled.&#160;
&#8220;I thought I had the God King&#8217;s priesthood on my side.
We were working together.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Something&#8217;s wrong
about this,</i> Lightsong thought, glancing at the group of priests
chatting anxiously at the side of the room. Llarimar sat in his own
cage--the one directly next to Lightsong--head bowed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong glanced back at
Blushweaver. &#8220;How long?&#8221; he asked. &#8220;How long were
you working with them?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;From the
beginning,&#8221; Blushweaver said. &#8220;I was supposed to get
the Command Phrases. We came up with the plan together!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why did they turn on
you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shook her head, glancing
down. &#8220;They claimed I didn&#8217;t do my part. That I was
withholding things from them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Were you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She looked away, eyes
tear-stained. She looked very odd, sitting in her cell. A woman of
deific proportions, wearing a fine silken robe, sitting on the
ground, surrounded by bars.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>We have to get out of
here,</i> Lightsong thought. He crawled over to the bars separating
his cage from Llarimar&#8217;s. &#8220;Scoot,&#8221; he hissed.
&#8220;Scoot!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar glanced up.&#160; He
looked haggard.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What does one use to
pick a lock?&#8221; Lightsong asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar blinked.&#160;
&#8220;What?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Pick a lock,&#8221;
Lightsong said, pointing. &#8220;Maybe I&#8217;ll discover that I
know how to do it, if I get my hands into the right position. I
still haven&#8217;t figured out why my swordsmanship skills were so
poor. But surely I can do this. &#160;If I can only remember what
to use.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar started at him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Maybe I--&#8221;
Lightsong began.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What is wrong with
you?&#8221; Llarimar whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong paused.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What is wrong with
you!&#8221; Llarimar bellowed, standing. &#8220;You were a
<i>scribe</i>, Lightsong. A Colors-cursed <i>scribe</i>. Not a
solider. Not a detective. &#160;Not a thief. &#160;You were an
accountant for a local moneylender!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>What?</i> Lightsong
thought.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You were as much an
idiot then as you are now!&#8221; Llarimar yelled.
&#8220;Don&#8217;t you ever <i>think</i> about what you&#8217;re
going to do before you just saunter off and do it! Why can&#8217;t
you just stop, occasionally, and ask yourself if you&#8217;re being
a complete fool or not? I&#8217;ll give you a hint! The answer us
<i>usually</i> yes!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong stumbled back from
the bars, startled. Llarimar. <i>Llarimar</i> was screaming.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And every time,&#8221;
Llarimar said, turning away, &#8220;<i>I</i> get in trouble with
you. Nothing has changed. You become a god, and I <i>still</i> end
up in prison!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The heavy priest slumped down,
breathing in deep gasps, shaking his head in obvious
frustration.&#160; Blushweaver was staring at them. And so were the
priests.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>What is it I find odd about
them?</i> Lightsong thought, trying to sort out his thoughts and
emotions as the group of priests approached.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Lightsong,&#8221; one of
them said, stooping down beside his cage. &#8220;We need your
Command Phrases.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He snorted. &#8220;I&#8217;m
sorry to say that I&#8217;ve forgotten them. You probably know my
reputation for being weak of mind. I mean, what kind of fool would
come charging in here and get himself captured so
easily?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He smiled at them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priest by his cage sighed,
then waved a hand toward the others. They unlocked
Blushweaver&#8217;s cage and pulled her out. She yelled and fought,
and Lightsong smiled at the trouble she gave them. Yet, there were
six priests, and they finally managed to get her out.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Then one got out a knife and
slit her throat.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The shock of the moment hit
Lightsong like a physical force. He froze, eyes wide, watching in
horror as the red blood spilled out the front of
Blushweaver&#8217;s throat, staining her beautiful nightgown.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Far more disturbing was the
look of panicked terror in her eyes. Such beautiful eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;<i>No</i>!&#8221;
Lightsong screamed, slamming against the bars, reaching helplessly
toward her. He strained his godly muscles, pressing himself against
the steel as he felt his body begin to shake. It was useless. Even
a perfect body couldn&#8217;t push its way through steel.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You bastards!&#8221; he
yelled. &#8220;You colors-cursed bastards!&#8221; He struggled,
pounding the bars with one hand as Blushweaver&#8217;s eyes began
to dim.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And then, her BioChroma faded.
Like a blazing bonfire dimming down to a single candle. It puffed
out.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No. . . .&#8221;
Lightsong said, sliding down to his knees, numb.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priest regarded him.&#160;
&#8220;So you <i>did</i> care for her,&#8221; he said.
&#8220;I&#8217;m sorry that we had to do that.&#8221;&#160; He
knelt down, solemn. &#8220;However, Lightsong, I need you to know
that we&#8217;re serious. I do know your reputation. I know that
you usually take things light-heartedly. That is a fine attribute
to have in many situations. Right now, you must realize how
dangerous things are.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Bastard. . . .&#8221;
Lightsong whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I need your Command
Phrases,&#8221; the priest said. &#8220;This is important. More
important than you can understand.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You can beat them out of
me,&#8221; Lightsong growled, feeling rage slowly overwhelm his
shock.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; the priest
said, shaking his head. &#8220;We&#8217;re actually new to all of
this. We don&#8217;t know how to torture, Lightsong, and those who
<i>do</i> know how to torture aren&#8217;t being very cooperative
right now. Never pay a mercenary before the job is done.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priest waved, and the
others left Blushweaver&#8217;s corpse on the ground. Then they
moved to Llarimar&#8217;s cage.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No!&#8221; Lightsong
screamed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We are serious,
Lightsong,&#8221; the man said. &#8220;Very, very, serious. We know
how much you care for your high priest. You now know that we will
kill him if you don&#8217;t do as we say.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why?&#8221; Lightsong
said.&#160; &#8220;What is this even about? The God King could
order us to move the armies if he wanted to! We&#8217;d listen to
him. Why do you care so much about those Command
Phrases?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priests forced Llarimar
from his cage, then pushed him to his knees. One took out a
knife.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Red panther!&#8221;
Lightsong yelled, weeping. &#8220;That&#8217;s the Command Phrase.
Please. Leave him be.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priest nodded to the
others, and they put Llarimar back in his cell. They left
Blushweaver&#8217;s corpse on the ground, face down in the
blood.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I hope that you
haven&#8217;t lied to us, Lightsong,&#8221; the main priest said.
&#8220;We are not playing games. It would be unfortunate if we
discovered that you still are.&#8221; He shook his head. &#8220;We
are not harsh men.&#160; But we are working for something very
important. Do not test us.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;With that, he left.&#160;
Lightsong barely noticed. He was still staring at Blushweaver,
trying to convince himself that he was dreaming, or that she was
faking, or that <i>something</i> would change to make him realize
that it was all just an elaborate scam.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Please,&#8221; he
whispered. &#8220;Please, no. . . .&#8221;</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Fifty-Four</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What&#8217;s the word on
the street, Tuft?&#8221; Vivenna asked, siding up to a beggar.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He snorted, holding out his cup
to those few who passed in the early light. Tuft was always one of
the first to arrive in the mornings. &#8220;Why do I care?&#8221;
he said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Come on,&#8221; Vivenna
said. &#8220;You kicked me out of this spot on three different
occasions. I figure you owe me something.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t owe nobody
nothing,&#8221; he said, squinting at the street passers with his
one eye. The other eye was simply an empty hole. He didn&#8217;t
wear a patch. &#8220;Particularly don&#8217;t owe you
nothing,&#8221; he said. &#8220;You were a plant all the time. Not
a real beggar.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I. . . .&#8221; Vivenna
paused. &#8220;I wasn&#8217;t a plant, Tuft. I just thought I
should know what it was like.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Huh?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Living among you,&#8221;
she said. &#8220;I figured your life couldn&#8217;t be easy. But I
couldn&#8217;t know--not really <i>know</i>--until I tried it for
myself. So I came to the streets. Determined to live here for a
time.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Foolish thing to
do.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; she said.
&#8220;The fools are those who pass, without even thinking about
what it must be like to live like you. Maybe if they knew,
they&#8217;d give you something.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She reached into her pocket,
pulling out one of the bright handkerchiefs. She placed one in the
cup. &#8220;I don&#8217;t have any coins, but I know you can sell
that.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He grunted, eying it.
&#8220;What do you mean by word on the street?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Disturbances,&#8221;
Vivenna said. &#8220;Ones that are out of the ordinary. Perhaps
involving Awakeners.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Go to the Third Dock
Slums,&#8221; Tuft said. &#8220;Maybe you&#8217;ll find what
you&#8217;re looking for there.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Light peeked through the
window.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Morning already?</i> Vasher
thought, head down, still hanging by his wrists.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He knew what to expect from
torture. He was not new to it. He knew how to scream, how to give
the torturer what he wanted. He knew how to not expend his strength
in resisting too much.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He also knew that none of that
was likely to do any good. How would he be after a week of
torture?&#160; Blood dripped down his chest, staining his
undershorts. A dozen small pains itched at his skin, slices that
had been smothered in lemon juice.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth stood with his back
facing Vasher, bloodied knives on the ground around him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher looked up, forcing a
smile. &#8220;Not as fun as you thought it would be, was it,
Denth?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth didn&#8217;t turn.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>There&#8217;s still a good
man in there,</i> Vasher thought. <i>Even after all these
years.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>He&#8217;s just been beaten
down. Bloodied. Cut up worse than I have been.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Torturing me won&#8217;t
bring her back,&#8221; Vasher said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth turned, eyes dark.
&#8220;No. It won&#8217;t.&#8221; He picked up another knife.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priests pushed Siri through
the passageways of the palace. They occasionally passed bodies in
the dark black hallways, and she could still hear fighting in
places.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>What is going on?</i>&#160;
Someone was attacking the palace. But who? For a moment, she hoped
it was her people--Idris, coming to save her. She discarded that
quickly. The men opposing the priests had Lifeless soldiers; that
ruled out Idris.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was someone else. A third
force. And they wanted to free her from the grip of the
priests.&#160; Hopefully, her calls for help would not go unheeded.
Tridees and his men led her forward, taking her out of the
hallways, entering the colorful rooms of the inner palace. They
rushed her quickly through a few doors.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The white cuffs of Siri&#8217;s
dress suddenly began to bend with color. She looked up with hope as
they entered a final room. The God King stood inside the room,
surrounded by a group of priests and soldiers.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Susebron!&#8221; she
said, straining against her captives.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He took a step toward her, but
a guard held his arm, pulling him back. <i>They&#8217;re touching
him,</i> Siri thought. <i>All semblance of respect is gone. No need
to pretend now.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The God King looked down at his
arm, frowning. He tried to tug it free, but another soldier stepped
up to help hold him Susebron glanced at this man, then at Siri,
confused.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t understand
either,&#8221; she said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tridees entered the room.&#160;
&#8220;Bless the Colors,&#8221; he said. &#8220;You&#8217;ve
arrived. Quickly, we must go. This place is not safe.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Tridees,&#8221; Siri
said, turning to glare at him. &#8220;What is going
on?&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He ignored her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I am your
<i>queen,</i>&#8221; Siri said. &#8220;You will answer my
question!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He actually stopped, surprising
her. He turned with an annoyed look. &#8220;A group of Lifeless has
attacked the palace, Vessel. They are trying to get to the God
King.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I figured that much out,
priest,&#8221; Siri snapped. &#8220;Who are they?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We don&#8217;t
know,&#8221; Tridees said, turning form her. As he did, a scream
came from outside the room, distant. It was followed by the sound
of fighting.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tridees glanced toward the
sounds. &#8220;We have to move,&#8221; he said to one of the other
priests. There were, perhaps, a dozen of them in the room, as well
as a half-dozen soldiers.&#160; &#8220;The palace has too many
doorways and passages. It would be too easy to surround
us.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The back exit?&#8221;
the other priest said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;If we can get to
it,&#8221; Tridees responded. &#8220;Where is that squadron of
reinforcements I demanded?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They&#8217;re not
coming, your grace,&#8221; a new voice said. Siri turned to see
Bluefingers, looking haggard, enter through the far door with a
couple of wounded soldiers. &#8220;The insurgents have taken the
east wing and are pushing this way.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tridees cursed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We have to get his
majesty to safety!&#8221; Bluefingers said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m well aware of
that,&#8221; Tridees snapped.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;If the east wing has
fallen,&#8221; the other priest said. &#8220;We won&#8217;t be able
to get out that way.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri watched, helpless, trying
to get Bluefinger&#8217;s attention. He met her eyes, then nodded
covertly, smiling. &#8220;Your grace,&#8221; Bluefingers said.
&#8220;We can escape through the tunnels.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The sounds of fighting were
growing closer. It seemed to Siri that their room was virtually
surrounded by battle.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Perhaps,&#8221; Tridees
said one of his priests rushed to the door to peek out. The
soldiers who had come with Bluefingers were resting by the wall,
bleeding. One of them seemed to have stopped breathing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We should go,&#8221;
Bluefingers said urgently.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tridees was quiet.&#160; Then
he walked over to one of the fallen soldiers and picked up the
man&#8217;s sword. &#8220;Very well, he said. &#8220;Gendren, take
half of the soldiers and go with the scribe. &#160;Take his majesty
to safety.&#8221; He glanced at Bluefingers. &#8220;Seek the docks,
if you can.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, your grace,&#8221;
Bluefingers said, looking relieved. The priests released the God
King, and he rushed to Siri, taking her in his arms. She held him,
tense, trying to sort through her emotions.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers. Going with him
made sense--the look in his eyes indicated that he had a plan to
save her and the God King, get them away from the priests. And yet.
. .something felt wrong to her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;One of the priests gathered
three of the soldiers then moved to the far side of the room,
peeking out. They waved to Siri and the God King. The other priests
joined Tridees, taking weapons off of the dead guards, their
expressions grim.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers pulled on
Siri&#8217;s arm. &#8220;Come, my queen,&#8221; he whispered.
&#8220;I believe I made a promise before. Let&#8217;s get you out
of this mess.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What about the
priests?&#8221; she asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tridees glanced at her.
&#8220;Foolish girl. Go! The insurgents are moving this direction.
We will let them see us, then we will lead them another direction.
They will assume we know where the God King is.&#8221; The priests
with him did not look hopeful.&#160; If--when--they were caught,
they would be slaughtered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Come on!&#8221;
Bluefingers hissed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron looked at her,
frightened. She slowly let Bluefingers tug her and the God King to
the side, to where the solitary priest and three soldiers had been
joined by a group of servants in brown. Something whispered in her
mind. Something. . .Lightsong had told her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Don&#8217;t make too many
waves until you&#8217;re ready to strike,</i> he had said.
<i>Sudden and surprising, that&#8217;s how you want to do things.
You don&#8217;t want to appear too nonthreatening--people are
always suspicious of the innocent. The trick is to appear
average.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Average.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was good advice.&#160;
Advice that, likely, others knew. And understood. She glanced at
Bluefingers, walking beside her, urging her forward. Nervous, as
always.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>The fighting,</i> she
thought. <i>Several groups have been fighting back and forth,
seizing control of my room. One force belongs to the priests. The
second force--the one with the Lifeless--belongs to someone else.
This mysterious third party.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Someone in T&#8217;Telir had
been pushing the kingdom toward war. But who would have anything at
all to gain from such a disaster? Hallandren, who would expend huge
resources to quell rebels, fighting a battle that they would
win--but likely at great cost?&#160; It didn&#8217;t make
sense.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Who would gain the most if
Hallandren and Idris went to war?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Wait!&#8221; Siri Said,
stopping. Things were suddenly falling into place.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Vessel?&#8221;
Bluefingers asked. Susebron laid a hand on her shoulder, looking at
her with confusion. <i>Why would the priests sacrifice themselves
if they were planning to kill Susebron?&#160; Why would they simply
let us go, allow us to flee, if the God King&#8217;s safety were
not their prime concern?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She looked into
Bluefinger&#8217;s eyes, and saw him grow more nervous. &#160;His
face paled, and she knew. &#8220;How does it feel,
Bluefingers?&#8221; she asked. &#8220;You&#8217;re from Pahn Kahl,
yet everyone always just assumes that your people are Hallandren.
The Pahn Kahl people were here first, in this land, but it was
taken from you. Now you&#8217;re just another province, part of the
kingdom of your conquerors.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You want to be free, but
your people have no military of your own. And so, here you are.
Unable to fight. Unable to free yourselves. Considered
second-class. And yet, if your oppressors were to get into a war
with their enemies, it might give you an opening. A chance to break
away. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He met her eyes, then took off
in a dash, fleeing from the room.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What in the name of the
colors?&#8221; Tridees said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri ignored him, looking up
into the God King&#8217;s face. &#8220;You were right all
along,&#8221; she said.&#160; &#8220;We <i>should</i> have trusted
your priests.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Vessel?&#8221; Tridees
said, stalking over.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We can&#8217;t go that
way,&#8221; Siri said. &#8220;Bluefingers was leading us into a
trap.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The high priest opened his
mouth to respond, but she met his eyes and turned her hair a deep
red with anger. Bluefingers had betrayed her. The <i>one</i> person
she&#8217;d thought that she could trust to help them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We go for the front
gates, then,&#8221; Tridees said, looking over their motley
collection of priests and wounded soldiers. &#8220;And try to fight
our way out.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was easy for Vivenna to find
the location her beggar friend had referenced. The building--a slum
tenement--was surrounded by gawkers, despite the morning hour.
People whispered, talking about spirits and death and ghosts from
the sea. Vivenna stopped at the perimeter, trying to see what had
drawn their attention.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The docks were to her left, the
sea brine pungent. The dock slums, where many of the dockhands
lived and drank, were a small section of buildings clustered
between warehouses and shipyards. Why would Vasher have come here?
He had been planning to visit the Court of Gods. From what she
could hear, there had been a murder in the building near her.
People whispered of ghosts, but Vivenna simply shook her head. This
wasn&#8217;t what she was looking for. She&#8217;d have to--</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Vivenna?</i> The voice was
faint, but she could just barely make it out. And recognize it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Nightblood?&#8221; she
whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Vivenna. Come get
me.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shivered. She wanted to
turn and run--even thinking about the sword made her feel nauseous.
Yet Vasher had taken Nightblood with him. She was in the right
place after all. &#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The gawkers spoke of a murder.
Was Vasher the person who had been killed?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Suddenly concerned, she shoved
her way through the crowd, ignoring yells that she should stay
back.&#160; She climbed up the stairs, passing door after door. In
her rush, she almost missed the one with black smoke creeping out
underneath it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She froze. Then, taking a deep
breath, she pushed the door open and stepped inside.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The room was poorly kept, the
floor littered with trash, the furniture splintered and worn. Four
bodies lay dead on the floor. Nightblood was sticking from the
chest of the fourth, an old man with a leathery face,</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Vivenna!</i> Nightblood said
happily. <i>You found me. I&#8217;m so excited. I tried to get them
to take me to the Court of Gods, but it didn&#8217;t turn out well.
He did draw me a little bit. That&#8217;s good, right?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She fell to her knees, feeling
sick.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Vivenna?</i> Nightblood
asked. <i>I did well, right?&#160; Varatridees threw me into the
ocean, but I came back out. I&#8217;m quite satisfied. You should
tell me that I did well.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She didn&#8217;t respond.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Oh,</i> Nightblood said.
<i>And, Vasher is hurt, I think. We should go find him.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She looked up.&#160;
&#8220;Where?&#8221; she asked, uncertain if the sword would even
be able to hear her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>The God King&#8217;s
palace,</i> Nightblood said. <i>He went to get your sister out. I
think he likes you, even though he says he doesn&#8217;t. He says
you&#8217;re annoying.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna blinked.&#160;
&#8220;Siri? You went after Siri?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Yes, but Varatridees stopped
us.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Who is that?&#8221; She
asked, frowning.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You call him Denth.&#160;
He&#8217;s Shashara's brother. I wonder if she&#8217;s here too.
I&#8217;m not sure why he threw me in the water. I thought he liked
me.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Vasher. . . .&#8221; she
said, climbing back to her feet, feeling woozy from the
sword&#8217;s influence.&#160; Vasher had been taken by Denth.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She shivered, remembering the
anger in Denth&#8217;s voice when he&#8217;d spoken of Vasher. She
gritted her teeth and grabbed a dirty blanket off the bedroll and
wrapped it around Nightblood so that she wouldn&#8217;t have to
touch him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Ah,</i> Nightblood said.
<i>You don&#8217;t really need to do that. I had the old man clean
me off after he got me out of the water.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She ignored the sword, managing
to lift the bundle with only a small amount of nausea. Then she
left, heading for the Court of Gods.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong sat, staring at the
stones in front of him. A little trickle of Blushweaver&#8217;s
blood was making its way down a crack in the rock.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your grace?&#8221;
Llarimar asked quietly. He stood up against the bars between their
cages.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong didn&#8217;t
respond.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your grace, I&#8217;m
sorry. I shouldn&#8217;t have yelled at you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What good is
godhood?&#8221; Lightsong whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Silence. Lanterns flickered on
either side of the small chamber. Nobody had cleaned up
Blushweaver&#8217;s body, though they had left a couple of priests
and Lifeless behind to watch Lightsong. They still needed him,
should it turn out that he&#8217;d lied about the Command
Phrases.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He hadn&#8217;t.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221; Llarimar
finally asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What good is it?&#8221;
Lightsong said. &#8220;We aren&#8217;t gods. Gods don&#8217;t die
like that. A little cut.&#160; Not even as wide as my
palm.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m sorry,&#8221;
Llarimar said. &#8220;She was a good woman, even among
gods.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;She wasn&#8217;t a
god,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;None of us are. I&#8217;ve
always known it. Nobody pays attention to me. Shouldn&#8217;t they
listen to the one they worship? Particularly if he&#8217;s telling
you <i>not</i> to worship him?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I. . . .&#8221; Llarimar
seemed at a loss for words.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They should have
seen,&#8221; Lightsong hissed. &#8220;They should have seen the
truth about me! An idiot. Not a god, but a scribe. A foolish little
scribe who was allowed to play god for a few years! A
coward.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;re no
coward,&#8221; Llarimar said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I couldn&#8217;t save
her,&#8221; Lightsong said. &#8220;I couldn&#8217;t do anything. I
just sat there and screamed.&#160; Maybe if I&#8217;d been more
brave, I&#8217;d have joined with her and taken control of the
armies. But I hesitated. And now she&#8217;s dead.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Silence.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You were a
scribe,&#8221; Llarimar said quietly to the damp air. &#8220;And
you were one of the best men I&#8217;d ever known. You were my
brother.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong looked up.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar stared out through the
bars, looking toward one of the flickering lanterns set in the
stark stone wall. &#8220;I was a priest, even then. I worked in the
palace of Kindwinds the Honest. I saw how he lied to play the games
of politics. The longer I spent in that palace, the more my faith
waned.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He fell silent for a moment,
then he looked up. &#8220;And then you died. Died rescuing my
daughter.&#160; That&#8217;s the girl you see in your visions,
Lightsong. The description is perfect. She was your favorite niece.
Still would be, I assume. If you hadn&#8217;t. . . .&#8221; He
shook his head. &#8220;When we found you dead, I lost hope. I was
going to resign my position. I knelt above your body, weeping. And
then, the Colors started to glow. You lifted your head, body
changing, getting larger, muscles growing strong.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I knew it at that
moment. I knew that if a man like <i>you</i> were chosen to
Return--a man who had died to save another--then the Iridescent
Tones were real. The visions were real. And the gods were real. You
gave me my faith back, Stennimar.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He met Lightsong&#8217;s eyes.
&#8220;You <i>are</i> a god. To me, at least. It doesn&#8217;t have
to do with how easily you can be killed, how much Breath you have,
or how you look. It has to do with who you are and what you
mean.&#8221;</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Fifty-Five</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There is fighting at the
front gates, your grace,&#8221; the bloodied soldier said.
&#8220;The insurgents are fighting each other there. We. . .we
might be able to get out.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri felt a stab of relief.
Finally, something going right.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tridees turned toward her.
&#8220;If we can get into the city, the people will rally around
their God King. We should be safe there.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Where did they get so
many Lifeless?&#8221; Siri asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tridees shook his head. They
had paused in a room near the front of the palace, desperate, yet
uncertain. Breaking through the Pahn Kahl fortification of the
Court of Gods was bound to be difficult.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She looked up at Susebron. His
priests treated him like a child--they gave him respect, but they
obviously didn&#8217;t care to ask his opinion. For his part, he
stood, hand on his shoulder. She saw thoughts and ideas working
behind those eyes of his, but there was nothing for him to write
upon.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Vessel,&#8221; Tridees
said, drawing her attention. &#8220;You need to know
something.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She looked at him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I hesitate to mention
this,&#8221; Tridees said, &#8220;as you are not a priest. But. .
.if you survive but we do not. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Speak it,&#8221; she
commanded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You cannot bear the God
King a child,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Like all Returned, he is
unable to bear children. We have not yet figured out how the First
Returned managed to have a child all those years ago. In fact. . .
.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You don&#8217;t even
think he did,&#8221; she said. &#8220;You think the Royal line is a
fabrication.&#8221; <i>Of course he&#8217;d dispute that,</i> she
thought. <i>He wouldn&#8217;t want to give credibility to
Idris&#8217;s claim.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He flushed. &#8220;It&#8217;s
what people believe that is in important in this matter.
Regardless, we. . .have a child. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; Siri said.
&#8220;A Returned child you are going to make the next God
King.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He looked at her,
shocked.&#160; &#8220;You <i>know</i>?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;re planning to
kill him, aren&#8217;t you?&#8221; she hissed. &#8220;Take
Susebron&#8217;s Breath and leave him dead!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Colors, no!&#8221;
Tridees said, shocked. &#8220;How. . .how could you think. . . .
No, we&#8217;d never do such a thing! Vessel, the God King needs
only give away the treasure of Breaths he holds, investing them
into the next God King, and then he can live the rest of his
life--so long as he should desire--in peace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri raised a skeptical
eyebrow. &#8220;That&#8217;s foolish, Tridees. If the God King
gives away his Breath, he will die.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There is a way,&#8221;
the priest said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That is supposed to be
impossible.&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No, not at all. Think
about it. The God King has <i>two</i> sources of Breath. One is his
innate, divine Breath--that which makes him Returned. The other is
the Breath given to him as the Treasure of Peacegiver,
fifty-thousand Breath strong. <i>That</i> he could use as any
Awakener could, as long as he is careful about the Commands he
uses. &#160;He could also survive quite easily as a Returned
without it. Any of the other gods could do the same, should they
gain Breath beyond the one a week which sustains them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You keep them from
realizing that, though,&#8221; Siri said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Not <i>keep</i>
specifically,&#8221; the priest said, looking away. &#8220;It does
not come up. Why would the Returned care about Awakening? They have
everything they need.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Except knowledge,&#8221;
Siri said. &#8220;You keep them in ignorance. I&#8217;m surprised
you didn&#8217;t cut out all of their tongues to hide your precious
secrets.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tridees looked back at her,
face growing harsh. &#8220;You judge us still. We do what we do
because it is what we <i>must</i>, Vessel. The power he holds in
that Treasure--fifty thousand Breaths--could destroy kingdoms. It
is too great a weapon; we were charged as our single, divine
mission to keep it safe and <i>not</i> let it be used.
We--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A sound came from a nearby
room. Tridees looked, concerned, and Susebron&#8217;s grip on
Siri&#8217;s shoulder tightened.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She looked up, concerned.
&#8220;Tridees,&#8221; she said. &#8220;I need to know. How? How
can Susebron give away his Breath? &#160;He can speak no
Command!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;At that moment, Lifeless burst
through the doorway to their left. Tridees cut off, glancing at
them. He yelled for her to flee, but another group of the creatures
came through the other way. Siri cursed, grabbing Susebron&#8217;s
hand, pulling him toward another doorway. She pulled it open.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers stood on the other
side. He looked into her eyes, face grim. Lifeless stood behind
him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri felt a stab of terror,
backing away. Sounds of fighting came from behind her, but she was
too focused on the Lifeless charging around Bluefingers toward her
and Susebron.&#160; The God King cried out, a tongueless, wordless
groan of anger.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And then the priests were
there. They threw themselves in front of the Lifeless, trying to
beat them back, trying desperately to protect their God King. Siri
clung to her husband in the ruddy room, watching as the priests
were slaughtered by emotionless warriors with gray faces. Priest
after priest jumped in the way, some with weapons, others simply
holding up their arms, bearing no weapons.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She saw Tridees grit his teeth,
terror showing in his eyes as he ran forward, trying to attack a
Lifeless. He died like the others. His secrets died with him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The Lifeless walked over the
corpses. Susebron pushed Siri behind her, arms shaking as he backed
them toward a wall, facing down the bloodied monsters. The Lifeless
finally stopped, and Bluefingers walked around them, looking past
Susebron toward her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And now, Vessel, I
beleve we were going somewhere.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m sorry,
miss,&#8221; the guard said, holding up a hand. &#8220;All access
to the Court of Gods is forbidden.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna ground her teeth.
&#8220;This is unacceptable,&#8221; she said. &#8220;I&#8217;m to
report to the Goddess Allmother at once! Can&#8217;t you see how
many Breaths I hold? I&#8217;m not someone you can just turn
away!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The guards remained firm. There
were a good two dozen of them at the gates, forbidding anyone who
tried to enter. Vivenna turned away. Whatever Vasher had done
inside the night before, he&#8217;d apparently caused quite a stir.
People clustered around the gateway to the Court, demanding
answers, asking if something was wrong.&#160; Vivenna made her
through them, leaving the gates behind.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Go to the side,</i>
Nightblood said. <i>Vasher never asks if he can enter. He just goes
in.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna glanced at the side of
the plateau. There was a short ledge of ground running around the
outside of the wall. With the guards so distracted by the people
wanting in. . . .</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She slipped to the side.&#160;
There were guards on the wall above--she could feel them with her
life sense. They were moving about, and it was early in the morning
yet, the sun not having crested the eastern mountains. She might be
able to sneak by them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She waited until one patrol had
passed, then Awakened one of the tapestries. &#8220;Lift me,&#8221;
she said, dropping a drained handkerchief. The tapestry wrapped
around her, drawing her into the air and setting her on the
walltop. She glanced about, recovering her breath. To the side, a
ways away, a group of guards was pointing at her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You&#8217;re not any better
at this than Vasher is,</i> Nightblood noted. <i>You people
can&#8217;t sneak at all!</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She cursed, Awakening the
tapestry again, having it lower her down into the Court. She
recovered her breath, then took off running across the grassy lawn.
Few people were about, but that only made her stand out even
more.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>The palace,</i> Nightblood
said. <i>Go there.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That was where she <i>was</i>
going. However, the longer she held the sword, the more she was
coming to realize that it said whatever it wanted, no matter
whether or not its comments had any relevance. Like a child,
speaking or asking questions as they occurred to it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The front of the palace was
very well guarded by a group of men who weren&#8217;t wearing
uniforms. <i>He&#8217;s in there,</i> Nightblood said. <i>I can
feel him. Third floor. Where he and I were before.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna got an image of the
room shoved into her head. She frowned. <i>Remarkably useful,</i>
she thought, <i>for an evil weapon of destruction.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I&#8217;m not evil,</i>
Nightblood said, voice not defensive, simply informative. As if
reminding her of something she&#8217;d forgotten. <i>I destroy
evil. I think maybe we should destroy those men up ahead. They look
evil. You should pull me out.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;For some reason, she doubted
that would be a good idea.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Come on,</i> Nightblood
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The soldiers were pointing at
her. She glanced behind, and saw others rushing across the lawn.
<i>Austre, forgive me,</i> she thought. Then, gritting her teeth,
she threw Nightblood--blanket and all--toward the guards in front
of the building.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They halted. To a man, they
looked down at the sword as it rolled free of the blanket, silver
sheath glistening on the lawn. <i>Well, I guess this works too,</i>
Nightblood noted, voice feeling distant now.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;One of the soldiers picked up
the sword. Vivenna dashed to the side, ignored by the
soldiers.&#160; They started to fight.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Can&#8217;t go that way,</i>
she thought, eying the front entrance, not wanting to risk pushing
her way through fighting men. So instead she ran to the side of the
massive palace. The lower levels were made of the step-like black
blocks which gave the palace its pyramid-like feel. Above these, it
grew into a more traditional fortress, with steep walls. There were
windows, if she could get to them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She twitched her fingers,
making the tassels on her sleeves clench and unclench. Then she
jumped, her Awakened leggings tossing her up a few extra feet. She
reached up and made the tassels grab the edge of the large, black
block. The tassels held, just barely, gripping the stone like
foot-long fingers. With difficulty, Vivenna pulled herself up onto
the block.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Men yelled and screamed below,
and she spared a glance. The guard who had grabbed Nightblood was
fighting off the others, a small trail of black smoke swirling
around him. As she watched, he backed into the palace itself, the
other men following him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>So much evil,</i> Nightblood
said, like a woman tisk&#8217;ing as she cleaned cobwebs from her
ceiling.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna turned away, feeling
guilty for giving the sword to the men. She jumped up and pulled
herself onto the next block, continuing as the soldiers who had
seen her from the walls arrived. They wore the colors of the city
watch, and while a couple of them got caught up in the Nightblood
fight, most of them ignored it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna continued her way
up.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>To the right,</i> Nightblood
said distantly. <i>That window on the third floor. Two over.
He&#8217;s in there. . . .</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And his voice faded.&#160;
Vivenna looked up, glancing at the window indicated. She still had
to climb up a number of blocks then somehow reach a window that was
an entire story up a sheer, steep wall. There did appear to be some
stonework that could make for handholds, but she grew dizzy at even
thinking about climbing them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;An arrow snapped against the
stone beside her, making her jump. Several guards below had
bows.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Colors!</i> she thought, and
pulling herself upon the next block. She heard a whoosh behind her,
and cringed, feeling as if she should have been struck. Nothing
happened. She pulled herself up onto the block, then twisted
around.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She barely caught sight of her
cloak holding an arrow. She started, remembering that she had
Awakened it. It dropped the arrow, then returned to normal.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Handy, that,</i> she
thought, climbing up the last block. By the time she got up on top
of it, her arms were sore and tired, and her legs were doing little
better. Fortunately, her Awakened fingers were still gripping as
well as ever. She took a deep breath, then began to climb up the
outside of the black fortress, using the handholds.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And decided, for her own
sanity, that she&#8217;d probably better avoid looking down.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong stared ahead.&#160;
Too much information. To much was happening. Blushweaver&#8217;s
death and Llarimar&#8217;s revelation, all in such quick
succession.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He sat in his cell, arms
wrapped around himself, gold and red robes dirtied from crawling
through the tunnel, then sitting in his cage.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priests talked quietly on
the far side of the room. Oddly, as he glanced at them, something
took his mind away from everything else. A diversion, of sorts.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He finally realized what was
bothering him about them. He should have seen it earlier. It had to
do with color--not the color of their clothing, but the color of
their faces.&#160; It was just slightly off. The deviation in one
man would have been easy to ignore. But all of them together. . .it
was a pattern.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;No regular person could have
noticed it. To a man with his Heightenings, it seemed obvious, once
he knew what to look for.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;These men were not from
Hallandren.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Anyone can wear a set of
robes,</i> he realized. <i>That doesn&#8217;t mean that
they&#8217;re priests.</i> In fact, judging by the faces, he
realized the men must be from Pahn Kahl.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And it all made sense to him,
that quickly. They&#8217;d all been played for fools.
<i>&#160;</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Bluefingers,&#8221; Siri
demanded.&#160; &#8220;Talk to me. What are you going to do with
us?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The labyrinth of the God
King&#8217;s palace was complex, and it was sometimes difficult
even still for her to find her way about. They&#8217;d traveled
down a stairwell but now seemed to be going up a different one.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers didn&#8217;t
answer. He walked with his customary nervousness, wringing his
hands. The fighting in the hallways seemed to be decreasing. In
fact, once they left the stairwell, this newest hallway was
dreadfully quiet.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri walked with
Susebron&#8217;s nervous arm around her waist. She didn&#8217;t
know what he was thinking--they hadn&#8217;t been able to pause
long enough for him to write anything. He gave her a comforting
smile, but she knew that this all must be just as terrifying for
him as it was for her. Probably more so.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You can&#8217;t do this,
Bluefingers,&#8221; Siri said, snapping at the little balding
man.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It is the only way
we&#8217;d ever be able to break free,&#8221; Bluefingers said, not
turning, but finally responding to her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But, you
can&#8217;t!&#8221; Siri said. &#8220;The Idrians are
innocent!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers shook his head.
&#8220;How many of my people would you sacrifice, if it would mean
the freedom for yours?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;None!&#8221; she
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I should like to see you
say that if our positions were reversed,&#8221; he said, still not
meeting her eyes. &#8220;I&#8217;m. . .sorry for your pain. But
your people are <i>not</i> innocent.&#160; They&#8217;re the same
as the Hallandren. In the Manywar, you rolled over us, made us your
workers and slaves. Only at the end, when the Royal family fled,
did Idris and Hallandren split.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Please,&#8221; Siri
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron suddenly punched a
Lifeless.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The God King growled,
struggling as he kicked at another. There were dozens of them. He
looked at her, waving a hand, motioning for her to flee. She
didn&#8217;t intend to leave him. Instead, she tried to grab
Bluefingers, but a Lifeless was too quick. It took her arm, holding
her firm, even when she batted at it. A couple of men in the robes
of Susebron&#8217;s priesthood came out of a stairwell ahead of
them, carrying lanterns. Siri, looking closely, immediately
recognized them as being from Pahn Kahl. They were too short and
their skin was just faintly off.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I&#8217;ve been a fool,</i>
she thought.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers had played the game
so well. He&#8217;d driven a wedge between her and the priests from
the start. Most of her concern and worry, she&#8217;d gotten from
him--and it had been reinforced by the priest&#8217;s arrogance.
All part of his plan to someday use her to gain freedom for his
people.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We have
Lightsong&#8217;s security phrase,&#8221; one of the new men said
to Bluefingers. &#8220;We have checked it, and it works. We changed
it to the new one. The rest of the Lifeless are ours.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri glanced to the side. The
Lifeless had pulled Susebron to the ground. He yelled--though it
came out as more a moan. Siri yanked, trying to escape her Lifeless
and help him. She began to cry.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;To the side, Bluefingers nodded
to his accomplices, looking fatigued. &#8220;Very well. Give the
Command. Order the Lifeless to march on Idris.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It will be done,&#8221;
the man said, laying a hand on Bluefingers&#8217; shoulder.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers nodded, looking
morose as the others withdrew.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What do you have to be
sad about?&#8221; she spat.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers turned toward her.
&#8220;My friends now are the only ones who know the Command
Phrases for Hallandren&#8217;s Lifeless army. Once those Lifeless
march on Idris--with orders to destroy everything they find
there--my friends will kill themselves with poison. There
won&#8217;t be ably left alive who can stop the
creatures.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Austre. . . .</i> Siri
thought, feeling numb. <i>Lord of Colors. . .</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Take the God King
below,&#8221; Bluefingers said, waving to several Lifeless.
&#8220;Hold him until it is time.&#8221;&#160; They were joined by
a Pahn Kahl scribe wearing fake priest&#8217;s robes as they towed
Susebron toward the stairwell. Siri reached for him. He continued
to struggle, reaching back, but the Lifeless were too strong. She
listened to his yells echoing down the stairwell.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What will you do with
him?&#8221; Siri asked, tears cold on her cheeks.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers glanced at her, but
once again, would not meet her eyes. &#8220;There will be many in
the Hallandren government who see the Lifeless charge as a
political faux pas, and they may seek to stop the war. Unless
Hallandren actually commits itself to this fight, then our
sacrifice will be useless.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t
understand.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We will take the bodies
of Lightsong and Blushweaver--the two gods with the Command
Phrases--and leave them in the Lifeless barracks, surrounded by
dead Idrians we took from the city. Then we will leave the corpse
of the God King to be discovered in the palace dungeons. Those who
investigate will assume that Idrian assassins attacked and killed
him--we&#8217;ve hired enough mercenaries from the Idrian slums
that it shouldn&#8217;t be too difficult to believe. Those of my
scribes who survive the night will confirm the story.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri blinked out tears.
<i>Everyone will assume that Blushweaver and Lightsong sent the
armies as retribution for the death of the God King.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>And with the king dead, the
people will be furious.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I wish you hadn&#8217;t
gotten involved in all of this,&#8221; Bluefingers said, motioning
for her Lifeless captors to pull her along. &#8220;It would have
been easier for me if you&#8217;d been able to keep yourself from
getting pregnant.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m not!&#8221;
she said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The people think you
are,&#8221; he said with a sigh as they walked toward the
stairwell. &#8220;And that&#8217;s enough. We have to break this
government <i>and</i> we have to make the Idrians mad enough to
want to destroy the Hallandren. I think your people will do better
in this war everyone says, especially if the Lifeless march without
leadership.&#160; Your people will ambush them, making sure this is
not an easy war for either side.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He glanced at her. &#8220;But,
for this war to work right, the Idrians have to <i>want</i> to
fight. &#160;Otherwise, they&#8217;ll flee and vanish into those
highlands. No, both sides have to hate each other, pull as many
allies into the battle as possible so that everyone is to
distracted . . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>And what better way to make
Idris willing to fight,</i> she thought with horror, <i>than to
kill me? Both sides will see the death of my child as an act of
war. This won&#8217;t simply be a fight for domination. It will be
a drawn out war of hatred. The fighting could last for
decades.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>And nobody will ever realize
that our real enemy--the one who started it all--is the peaceful,
quiet province to the south of Hallandren.</i><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before: always' /></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Fifty-Six</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna hung outside the
window, breathing deeply, sweating heavily. She&#8217;d peeked
inside. Denth was in there, as was Tonk Fah. Vasher hung from a
rope at the ceiling. He was bloodied, and he held no Breath, but he
seemed to be alive.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Can I stop both Denth</i>
and <i>Tonk Fah?</i> she thought. Her arms were tired. She had a
length of Awakened rope in her pocket. What if she threw it and
missed? She had seen Denth fight. He was faster than she&#8217;d
thought possible. &#160;She would have to surprise him. And if she
missed, she would die.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>What am I doing?</i> she
thought. <i>Hanging from a wall, about to challenge two
professional soldiers?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her recent past gave her the
strength to push down her fear. They might kill her, but that would
be a quick end. She&#8217;d survived betrayals, deaths of friends,
and a time going mad from the fatigue, hunger, and terror of living
on the streets. She&#8217;d been pushed down, forced to admit that
she&#8217;d betrayed her people. There wasn&#8217;t really any more
they could do to her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;For some reason, those thoughts
gave her power. Surprised at her own determination, she quietly
recovered the Breath from her cloak and her leggings. She Awakened
a pair of rope bits, telling them to grab when thrown. She said a
quiet prayer to Austre, then pulled herself up through the window
and into the room.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher was groaning.&#160; Tonk
Fah was dozing in the corner. Denth, holding a bloody knife, looked
up immediately as she hopped through the window. The look of utter
shock on his face was, in itself, almost worth everything
she&#8217;d been through. She tossed the rope at him then threw the
other at Tonk Fah.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth reacted immediately,
cutting the rope out of the air with his dagger. The pieces of it
twisted and wiggled, but weren&#8217;t long enough to grab
anything. The one she threw at Tonk Fah, however, hit. He cried
out, coming awake as it wrapped around his face and neck.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna pulled to a halt beside
Vasher&#8217;s swinging body. Denth had his sword out; he&#8217;d
pulled it free more quickly than she could track. She gulped, then
pulled out her own sword, holding it forward as Vasher had taught
her. Denth paused just briefly in surprise.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That was enough. She swung--not
for Denth, but for the rope holding Vasher to the ceiling. He fell
with a grunt, and Denth struck, slamming the point of his dueling
blade through her shoulder.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She fell, gasping in pain.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth stepped back.
&#8220;Well, Princess,&#8221; he said, warily holding his blade.
&#8220;I didn&#8217;t expect to see you here.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tonk Fah made a gagging sound
as the rope twisted around his neck, choking him. He struggled to
pull it free with little success.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Once, the pain in her shoulder
might have been dehabilitating. But after the beatings she&#8217;d
taken on the street, it seemed somewhat familiar to her. She looked
up, and met Denth&#8217;s eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Was this supposed to be
a rescue?&#8221; Denth asked. &#8220;Because honestly, I&#8217;m
not very impressed.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tonk Fah knocked over his stool
in his thrashing. Denth glanced at him, then back at Vivenna. There
was a moment of silence, save for Tonk Fah&#8217;s weakening
struggles. Finally, Denth cursed and jumped over to cut at the rope
on his friend&#8217;s neck.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You all right?&#8221;
Vasher asked from beside her. She was shocked by how solid his
voice sounded, despite his bloodied body.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She nodded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They&#8217;re going to
send Lifeless marching on your homeland,&#8221; he said.
&#8220;We&#8217;ve been wrong about this all along. I don&#8217;t
know who&#8217;s behind it, but I think they&#8217;re winning the
fight for the palace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth finally got the rope cut
free.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You need to run,&#8221;
Vasher said, wiggling his hands free from their rope bonds.
&#8220;Get back to your people, tell them not to fight the
Lifeless. They need to flee the country, head through the northern
passes, hide in the highlands. <i>Do not fight</i> or bring other
kingdoms into the war.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna glanced back at Denth,
who was smacking Tonk Fah back awake. Then she closed her eyes.
&#8220;Your Breath to mine,&#8221; she said, drawing back in the
Breath from her hand tassels. She reached out, placing her hand on
Vasher&#8217;s back.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Vivenna. . . .&#8221; he
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My life to yours,&#8221;
she said. &#8220;My Breath become yours.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her world became a thing
dullness. Beside her, Vasher gasped, then began to convulse at the
bestowal of Breath. Denth stood up, spinning.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You do it,
Vasher,&#8221; Vivenna whispered. &#8220;You&#8217;ll be far better
at it than I will be.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Stubborn woman,&#8221;
Vasher said as he overcame the convulsions. He reached out, as if
to restore her Breath to her, but he noticed Denth.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth smiled, raising his
blade. Vivenna put a hand to her shoulder, stopping the blood flow,
and she began to push herself back toward the window--though,
without Breath, she wasn&#8217;t certain what she intended to do
there.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher stood up, taking her
sword in his hand. He wore only the bloody undershorts, but his
stance was firm. He slowly wrapped the rope that had been holding
him up around his waist, forming his characteristic belt.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>How does he do it?</i> she
thought. <i>Where does his strength come from?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I should have hurt you
more,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;I took my time. Savoring it too
much.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher snorted, tying off the
belt. Denth seemed to be waiting, anticipating something.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;ve always found
it funny that we bleed, just like regular men,&#8221; Denth said.
&#8220;We might be stronger, but we die just the same.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Not the same,&#8221;
Vasher said, raising Vivenna&#8217;s blade. &#8220;Other men die
with far more honor than we, Denth.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth smiled. Vivenna could see
excitement in his eyes. <i>He always claimed that there was no way
Vasher could have beat his friend, Arsteel, in a duel,</i> she
thought. <i>He wants to fight Vasher. He wants to prove to himself
that Vasher isn&#8217;t as good as he is.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Blades whipped into motion. And
after just a quick exchange, Vivenna could see that there was no
contest.&#160; Denth was the better. Perhaps it was Vasher&#8217;s
wounds. Perhaps it was the growing anger she saw in Vasher&#8217;s
eyes as he fought, marring his ability to be calm and collected
during the fight. Maybe he really just wasn&#8217;t as good as
Denth. However, as Vivenna watched, she realized that Vasher was
going to lose.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I didn&#8217;t do all of
this so you could just die!</i> she thought, rising to try to
help.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A hand fell on her shoulder,
pushing her back down. &#8220;I don&#8217;t think so,&#8221; Tonk
Fah said, looming over her. &#8220;Nice trick with the rope, by the
way. Very clever. I know a few tricks with ropes myself. Did you
know, for instance, that a rope can be used burn a person&#8217;s
flesh?&#8221; He smiled. Then, he leaned down. &#8220;Mercenary
humor, you see.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;His cloak slid slightly off his
shoulder, falling against her cheek.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>It couldn&#8217;t be,</i>
she thought. <i>I escaped from him. I tried to Awaken his cloak,
but used a bad Command. Could he have been dumb enough to keep
wearing it?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She smiled, glancing over her
shoulder. Vasher had backed against the far wall, to the window,
and he was sweating profusely, bloody drops falling to the ground.
Denth forced him back again, and Vasher stepped up on the table by
the far wall, seeking high ground.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She looked back at Tonk Fah,
his cloak still touching her cheek. &#8220;Your Breath to
mine,&#8221; she said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She felt a sudden, welcoming
burst of Breath.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Huh?&#8221; Tonk Fah
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Nothing,&#8221; she
said.&#160; &#8220;Just. . .Attack and grab Denth!&#8221; Command
made, visualization made, the cloak began to quiver. Tonk
Fah&#8217;s shirt drained of color, and his eyes widened with
surprise. The cloak suddenly whipped into the air, yanking Tonk Fah
to the side causing him to stumble away from her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>That&#8217;s why I&#8217;m
the princess, and you&#8217;re just a mercenary,</i> she thought
with satisfaction, rolling over.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tonk Fah cried out.&#160; Denth
spun at the sound, crying out as the very large, very uncoordinated
Pahn Kahl man rammed into him, cloak whipping about.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth slammed backward,
catching Vasher by surprise as they rammed together. Tonk Fah
grunted. Denth cursed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And Vasher was shoved backward
out the window.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna blinked in surprise.
That wasn&#8217;t what she&#8217;d been intending. &#160;Denth cut
away the cloak, pushing Tonk Fah back, cursing to himself.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;All was silent in the room for
a moment.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Go grab our squad of
Lifeless!&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;Now!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You think he&#8217;ll
live?&#8221; Tonk Fah asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He just fell out a three
story window, plummeting toward certain doom,&#8221; Denth said.
&#8220;Of course he&#8217;ll live! Send the squad for the front
doors to slow him!&#8221; Denth glanced at Vivenna. &#8220;You,
Princess, are far too much trouble for what you&#8217;re
worth.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So people are fond of
telling me,&#8221; she said with a sigh, raising her bloodied hand
to her shoulder again, too exhausted to be terrified like she
probably should be.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher fell toward the hard
stone blocks below. He watched the window retreat above him.
<i>Almost,</i> he thought with frustration. <i>I just about had
him!</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Wind whistled. He screamed in
frustration, pulling free the rope at his waist, Vivenna&#8217;s
Breath a lively strength within him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Grab things,&#8221; he
Commanded, whipping it out, drawing color from his blood-stained
shorts. They bled to grey, and the rope wrapped around an
outcropping of stone on the side of the palace. It pulled taught,
and he ran sideways along the ebony blocks, slowing his fall.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your Breath to
mine,&#8221; he yelled as his momentum slowed. The rope dropped
free and he landed on the first block. &#8220;Become as my leg and
give it strength!&#8221; he Commanded, drawing color from the blood
on his chest. The rope twisted down, wrapping around his leg and
foot as he leaped off. He landed on the next block, one foot down,
the coiled rope--and its strange, inhuman muscles--bearing the
brunt of the shock.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Four hops and he hit the
ground. A group of soldiers stood amidst some bodies at the front
gates, looking confused. Vasher barreled toward them, translucent,
colorless blood dropping from his skin as he drew his Breath back
from his rope.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He scooped a sword off of a
fallen soldier. The men in front of the gates turned and readied
their weapons. &#160;He didn&#8217;t have the time, or the
patience, for pleasantries. He struck, cutting men down with quick
efficiency. He wasn&#8217;t as good as Denth, but he was very well
practiced.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Unfortunately, there were a lot
of men. Maybe too many to fight. Vasher cursed, spinning between
them, dropping another one. He bent down, slapping his hand against
the waist of a fallen soldier, touching both shirt and pants.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Fight for me, as if you
were me,&#8221; he Commanded, draining the man&#8217;s shoes
completely grey. Vasher spun, blocking a sword strike. Another came
from the side, and another. He couldn&#8217;t block them all.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A sword flashed in the air,
blocking a weapon that would have hit Vasher. The dead man&#8217;s
shirt and trousers, having pulled themselves free, stood holding a
blade. They struck, as if controlled by an invisible person inside,
blocking and attacking with skill. Vasher put his back to the
Awakened construct. When he had a chance, he made another one,
draining away his remaining Breath.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They fought in a trio, Vasher
and his two sets of Awakened clothing. The guards cursed, much more
wary now. Vasher eyed them, planning an attack. At that moment, a
troop of some fifty Lifeless barreled around the corner, charging
toward him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Colors!</i> Vasher thought.
He growled in rage, striking and taking down another soldier.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Colors, colors,
colors!</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You shouldn&#8217;t
swear,</i> a voice said in his head. <i>Shashara told me that was
evil.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher spun toward the sound. A
little line of smoke was trailing out from beneath the closed front
doors of the palace.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Aren&#8217;t you going to
thank me?</i> Nightblood said. <i>I came to save you.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;One of his sets of clothing
fell, the leg cut free by a clever strike from a soldier. Vasher
reached back, drawing the Breath back from the second set of
clothing, then stepped with an unclothed toe on the fallen set,
drawing the Breath from it as well.&#160; The soldiers backed away,
wary, apparently wanting to let the Lifeless take him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And in that moment of peace,
Vasher charged for the gates to the palace. He threw his shoulder
against the door, slamming it open, skidding into the entryway.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A large group of men lay dead
on the ground. Nightblood sprouted from one man&#8217;s chest, as
usual, hilt pointing toward the sky. Vasher hesitated only briefly.
He could hear Lifeless charging up behind him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He ran forward and grabbed
Nightblood&#8217;s hilt and pulled the sword free, leaving the
sheath behind in the body.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The blade sprayed a wave of
black liquid as he swing it. The liquid dissolved into smoke before
touching walls or floor, like water in an oven. Smoke twisted, some
rising from the blade, some falling in a stream to the floor,
dripping like black blood.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Destroy!</i>&#160;
Nightblood&#8217;s voice boomed in his head. <i>The evil must be
destroyed!</i> A pain shot up Vasher&#8217;s arm, and he felt his
Breath being leached away, sucked into the blade, fueling its
hunger. &#160;&#160;Drawing the weapon had a terrible cost. At that
moment, he didn&#8217;t really care. He spun toward the charging
Lifeless and--enraged--attacked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Each creature he struck with
the blade immediately flashed and became smoke. A single scratch
and the bodies dissolved like paper being consumed by an invisible
fire, leaving behind only large stain of blackness in the air.
Vasher spun among them, striking with wrath, killing Lifeless after
Lifeless. Black smoke churned around him, and his arm twisted with
pain as vein-like tendrils climbed up the hilt around his
forearm--like black blood vessels that latched onto his skin,
feeding off his Breath.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;In a matter of minutes, the
Breath Vivenna had given him had been reduced by a half. Yet in
those moments, he destroyed all fifty Lifeless. The soldiers
outside pulled to a halt, watching the display. Vasher stood amidst
a churning mass of deep ebony smoke. It slowly rose to the air, the
only remnants of the fifty creatures he had destroyed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The soldiers ran away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher screamed, charging
toward the side of the room. He slammed Nightblood through a wall.
The stone dissolved just as easily as flesh had, puffing away
before him. He burst through the dissolving black smoke, entering
the next room. &#160;&#160;He didn&#8217;t bother with a stairwell.
He simply jumped onto a table and rammed Nightblood into the
ceiling.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A circle ten feet wide
vanished. Dark, mist-like smoke fell around him like streaks of
paint. He Awakened his rope again then tossed it up, using it to
pull himself up onto the next floor. A moment later, did it again,
climbing onto the third floor.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He spun, slashing through
walls, bellowing as he ran back toward Denth. The pain in his arm
was incredible, and his Breath was draining away at an alarming
rate. Once it was gone, Nightblood would kill him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Everything was growing fuzzy.
He slashed through a final wall, finding the room where he had been
tortured.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was empty.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He cried out, arm shaking.
<i>Destroy. . .evil. . .</i> Nightblood said in his mind, all
lightness gone from the tone, all familiarity. It boomed like a
command. An awful, inhuman thing. The longer Vasher held the sword,
the faster it drained his Breath.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Gasping, he threw the sword
aside and fell to his knees. It skidded, tearing a rip in the
ground that puffed away into smoke, but hit a wall with a pling and
fell still. Smoke rose from the blade.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher knelt, arm
twitching.&#160; The black veins on his skin slowly evaporated. He
was left with just barely enough Breath to reach the First
Heightening. Another few seconds, and Nightblood would have sucked
the rest away. He shook his head, trying to clear his vision.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Something fell to the carpet in
front of him. A dueling blade. Vasher looked up.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Stand up,&#8221; Denth
said, eyes hard. &#8220;We&#8217;re going to finish what we
started.&#8221;</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Fifty-Seven</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers led Siri--held by
several Lifeless--up to the fourth floor of the palace. The top
floor. They entered a room decorated with lavish colors, even for
Hallandren.&#160; Lifeless guards there let them pass, bowing their
heads to Bluefingers.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>All the Lifeless in the city
are controlled by Bluefingers and his scribes,</i> she thought.
<i>But even before that, the scribes had amazing power over the
bureaucracy and workings of the kingdom. Did the Hallandrens
realize that they were dooming themselves by regulating the Pahn
Kahl people to such lowly--yet important--positions?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My people will not fall
for this,&#8221; Siri found herself saying as she was pulled to the
front of the room. &#8220;They won&#8217;t fight Hallandren.
They&#8217;ll retreat through the passes. Take refuge in the
highland valleys or one of the outer kingdoms.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The front of the room held a
black block of stone, shaped like an altar. Siri frowned. From
behind, a group of Lifeless entered the room, carrying the corpses
of several priests.&#160; She saw Tridees&#8217;s body among
them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>What?</i> Siri thought.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers turned toward her.
&#8220;We&#8217;ll make certain they&#8217;re angry,&#8221; he
said. &#8220;Trust me. When this is through, Princess, Idris will
fight until either it or Hallandren is destroyed.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They tossed someone into the
cell next to Lightsong. He looked up with tired eyes, uncaring. It
was another Returned. Which of the Gods had they taken captive
now?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>The God King,</i> he
thought. <i>Interesting.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He looked down again.&#160;
What did it matter? He&#8217;d failed Blushweaver. He&#8217;d
failed everyone. The Lifeless armies were probably already marching
on Idris. Hallandren and Idris would fight and the Pahn Kahl would
have their revenge. It had been three hundred years coming.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher stood up with
difficulty. He held the sword in a weak hand, looking at Denth,
still shaken by his use of Nightblood. The empty black hallway was
now open around them.&#160; Vasher had destroyed several of the
walls.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Corpses littered the floor, the
result of the conflicts which had occurred when Denth&#8217;s men
had taken over the palace.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;ll let you die
easily,&#8221; Denth said, raising his blade. &#8220;Just tell me
the truth. You never beat Arsteel in a duel, did you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher raised his own blade.
The cuts, the pain in his arm, the tiredness of being awake so
long. . .it was all wearing on him. Adrenaline could only get him
so far, and even <i>his</i> body could only take so much.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Have it your way,&#8221;
Denth said, attacking.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher backed away, forced to
the defensive. Denth had always been better at swordplay. Vasher
had been better at research, but what had that earned him?
Discoveries that had caused the Manywar.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He fought. He fought well, he
knew, considering how tired he was. But it did little good. Denth
drove his blade through Vasher&#8217;s left shoulder--Denth&#8217;s
favorite place for a first strike. It allowed his opponent to keep
fighting, wounded. Drew out the fight for Denth&#8217;s
enjoyment.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You <i>never</i> beat
Arsteel,&#8221; Denth whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;re going to
kill me on an altar,&#8221; Siri said, standing in the room, held
by Lifeless. Around her, other Lifeless placed bodies on the floor.
Priests. &#8220;It doesn&#8217;t make sense, Bluefingers. You
don&#8217;t worship their religion. Why do this?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers stood to the side,
holding a knife. She could see the shame in his eyes.
&#8220;Bluefingers,&#8221; she said, forcing her voice to remain
even, her hair to stay black.&#160; &#8220;Bluefingers, you
don&#8217;t have to do this.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers finally looked at
her. &#8220;After all I&#8217;ve already done, do you think one
more death will mean anything to me?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;After all you&#8217;ve
done,&#8221; she said, &#8220;do you really think one more death
will matter for your cause?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He glanced at the altar.
&#8220;Yes,&#8221; he said. &#8220;You know how the Idrians whisper
of the things that go on in the Court of Gods. Your people hate and
distrust the Hallandren priests; they speak of murders done on dark
altars in the backs of the palaces.&#160; Well, we are going to let
a group of those Idrian mercenaries see this, once you are dead.
We&#8217;ll show them that we were too late to save you, that the
priests had already killed you on one of their twisted altars.
We&#8217;ll show them the dead priests we killed trying to save
you.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The Idrians will riot in
the city. They&#8217;re strained to snapping anyway--we have you to
thank for that. The city will be in chaos, and there will be a
slaughter like hasn&#8217;t been seen since the Manywar. Those that
live will return to Idris to tell the tale. They&#8217;ll let
everyone know that the Hallandrens only wanted a princess of the
royal blood so that they could sacrifice her to their God King. It
is exaggerated and foolish to think that the Hallandrens would
really do such a thing, but the Idrians will believe it. You know
they will.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And she did. She&#8217;d heard
similar stories told in Idris from her childhood. Hallandren was
distant to her people: frightening, bizarre. Siri struggled,
feeling even more worried.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers glanced back at
her. &#8220;I truly am sorry.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I am nothing,</i> Lightsong
thought. <i>Why couldn&#8217;t I save her? Why couldn&#8217;t I
protect her?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He was crying again.&#160;
Oddly, someone else was too. The man in the cell next to him. The
God King. Susebron moaned with frustration, pounding against the
bars of his cage. He didn&#8217;t speak, though, or denounce his
captors.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I wonder why that is,</i>
Lightsong thought.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Men approached the God
King&#8217;s cell. Pahn Kahl men, with weapons. Their expressions
were grim.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong found it hard to
care.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You are a god.</i>&#160;
Llarimar&#8217;s voice still challenged him. The high priest lay in
his own cell, to Lightsong&#8217;s left, eyes closed against the
terrors around them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You are a god. To me at
least.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong shook his head.
<i>No. I&#8217;m nothing! No god. Not even a good man.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You are. . .to me. .
.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Water splashed against him.
Lightsong shook his head, shocked. Thunder sounded, distant, in his
head. Nobody else seemed to notice.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was growing dark.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>What?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He was on a ship.&#160;
Tossing, churning, on a dark sea. Lightsong stood on the deck,
trying to stay upright on the slick boards. Part of him knew it was
simply a hallucination, that he was still back in the prison cell,
but it felt real. Very real.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The waves churned, black sky
ripped by lightning ahead, and the ship&#8217;s motion slammed his
face against the outside wall of the ship&#8217;s cabin section.
Light from a pole-mounted lantern flickered uncertainly. It seemed
weak compared to the lighting which was so violent and angry.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong blinked. His face was
pressed up against something painted on the wood. A red panther,
glistening in the lanternlight and the rain.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>The name of the ship,</i> he
remembered, <i>the Red Panther.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He wasn&#8217;t
Lightsong.&#160; Or he was, but he was a much pudgier version of
himself. A man accustomed to being a scribe. To working long hours
counting coins. Checking legers.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Seeking for lost money.
That&#8217;s what he&#8217;d done. People hired him to discover
where they&#8217;d been cheated or if a contract hadn&#8217;t been
paid right. His job was to look through the books, searching out
hidden or confusing twists of math. A detective.&#160; Just not the
sort he had expected.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Waves crashed against the boat.
Llarimar, looking a few years younger, yelled for help from the
prow.&#160; Deckhands rushed to his aid. It wasn&#8217;t
Llarimar&#8217;s ship, or even Lightsong&#8217;s.&#160; This had
been borrowed it for a simple pleasure trip. Sailing was a hobby of
Llarimar&#8217;s.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The storm had come suddenly.
Lightsong lurched back to his feet, barely managing to stay up as
he made his way forward, clutching the railing. Waves surged across
the deck, and sailors struggled to keep the boat from capsizing.
The sails were gone, tattered. Wood creaked and cracked around him.
Dark, black water churned in the ocean just to his right.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar yelled to Lightsong,
asking him to lash down the barrels. Lightsong nodded, grabbing a
rope and tying one end to a deck clasp. A wave hit, and he skidded,
almost falling over the edge into the water.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He froze, gripping the railing,
looking into the sea&#8217;s mad, terrifying depths. He shook
himself free, then grabbed his rope, tying a wide slip knot. It
came naturally to him.&#160; Llarimar had taken him on enough
sailing trips now.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar called for help again.
And, suddenly, a young woman left the cabin and ran across the
deck, grabbing ropes as if to lend aid. &#8220;Tatara!&#8221; a
woman called from the cabin. There was terror in her voice.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong looked up.&#160; He
recognized the girl. He reached out, rope looped in his hands. He
shouted for her to go back below, but his voice was lost in the
thunder.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She turned to look at him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The next wave tossed her into
the ocean.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Llarimar cried out in
despair.&#160; Lightsong watched, shocked. The deep blackness
claimed his niece. Engulfed her. Swallowed her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Such great, horrible
chaos.&#160; The sea in a storm. &#160;He felt useless, his heart
thumping with fright as he watched the young woman get swept into
the churning current. He saw remnants of her golden hair twisting
in the water. A weak splash of color passing his side of the ship.
It would soon be gone.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Men cursed. &#160;Llarimar
screamed. &#160;A woman wept. Lightsong just stared into the
bubbling deep, with its alternating froth and blackness. The
terrible, terrible blackness.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He still held the rope in his
hand.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Without thinking, he leaped up
onto the railing and threw himself into the darkness. Icy water
took him, but he reached out, thrashing and churning in the
tempest. He barely knew how to swim. Something passed him in the
darkness.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He grabbed it. Her foot.&#160;
He threw the loop around her ankle, somehow managing to get the
knot tight despite the water and the waves. As soon as he did, a
surge in the undulating water yanked him away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Down. Into the black deep.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Claimed by the void.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He blinked, waves and thunder
fading. He sat on the cool stones of his cell. The void had taken
him, but something had sent him back. He&#8217;d Returned.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Because he&#8217;d seen war and
destruction.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man beside him was yelling
in fear. Lightsong looked over as the fake priests grabbed
Susebron, and Lightsong could see into the God King&#8217;s mouth.
<i>No tongue,</i> Lightsong though. <i>Of course. To keep him from
using all that BioChroma. It makes sense.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He turned to the side.&#160;
Blushweaver&#8217;s body lay red and bloodied. He&#8217;d seen that
it in a vision. He&#8217;d thought she was blushing, but now he
understood. He looked to the side.&#160; Llarimar, eyes closed as
if asleep--though he now realized the man simply had them shut as
he wept.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The God King in prison.&#160;
Lightsong seen that too.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>By the Colors. . . .</i>
Lightsong thought, standing up as the priests forced the God King
to his knees.&#160; <i>I</i> am <i>a god.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong stepped forward,
moving up to the bars of his cage. He saw pain and tears in the God
King&#8217;s face and somehow understood them. He did love Siri.
Lightsong had seen the same thing in Siri&#8217;s eyes. She had
somehow come to care for the man who was to oppress her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You are my king,&#8221;
Lightsong whispered. &#8220;And lord of the gods.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The Pahn Kahl men forced the
God King face down on the stones. One of the priests raised a
sword. The God King&#8217;s legs jutted out, his feet toward
Lightsong.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I have seen the Void,</i> he
thought. <i>And I came back. I understand now.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And then Lightsong reached
through the bars and touched the God King&#8217;s leg. A fake
priest looked up with alarm.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lightsong met the man&#8217;s
eyes, then smiled broadly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth slashed, wounding Vasher
in the leg.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher stumbled, going down on
one knee. Denth struck again, and Vasher barely managed to keep the
sword away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth backed off, shaking his
head. &#8220;You are pathetic, Vasher. There you kneel, about to
die.&#160; And you still think you&#8217;re better than the rest of
us. You judge me for becoming a mercenary? What else was I to do?
Take over kingdoms? Rule and start wars, as you did?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher bowed his head.&#160;
Denth growled and ran forward, lashing out with his sword. Vasher
tried to defend himself, but he was just too weak. Denth knocked
Vasher&#8217;s weapon aside, then kicked him in the stomach,
sending Vasher backward against the wall.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher slumped down, sword
lost. He reached for a knife on the belt of a fallen soldier, but
Denth stepped up and put his booted foot on Vasher&#8217;s
hand.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You think I should just
go back to the way I was before?&#8221; Denth spat. &#8220;The
happy, friendly man that everyone loved?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You were a good
man,&#8221; Vasher whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That man saw and did
terrible things,&#8221; Denth said. &#8220;I&#8217;ve tried,
Vasher. I&#8217;ve <i>tried</i> going back. But the darkness I
know. . .it&#8217;s inside. I can&#8217;t escape it. My laughter
has an edge to it. I can&#8217;t forget.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I can make you,&#8221;
Vasher said. &#8220;I know the Commands.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth froze.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I promise,&#8221; Vasher
said. &#8220;I will take it all from you, if you wish.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth stood for a long moment,
foot on Vasher&#8217;s arm, sword pointed down. Then, finally, he
shook his head. &#8220;No. I don&#8217;t deserve that. Neither of
us do. Goodbye, Vasher.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He raised his blade to strike.
And, Vasher moved his arm up, touching Denth&#8217;s leg.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My life to yours, my
Breath become yours.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth froze, then stumbled.
Fifty Breaths fled from Vasher&#8217;s chest and surged into
Denth&#8217;s body.&#160; They would be unwelcome, but he
couldn&#8217;t turn them away. Fifty Breaths. Not many.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But enough. Enough to make
Denth shake with pleasure. Enough to make him lose control for just
a second, falling to his knees. And, in that second, Vasher
stood--ripping the dagger free from the corpse beside him--then
slashed it through Denth&#8217;s throat.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The mercenary fell back, eyes
wide, neck bleeding. He shook amidst the pleasure of gaining new
Breaths even as his life flowed from him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Nobody ever expects
it,&#8221; Vasher whispered, stepping forward. &#8220;Breath is
worth a fortune. To put it into someone, then kill them, is to lose
more money than most men will probably ever know. They never expect
it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Denth stopped moving, life
fading away, new Breaths and old both vanishing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You wanted to learn how
I killed Arsteel,&#8221; Vasher said, spitting blood to the side.
&#8220;Well, now you know.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers picked up a knife.
&#8220;The least honor I can do,&#8221; he decided, &#8220;is to
kill you myself, rather than letting the Lifeless do it. I promise
it will be quick. We will make it look like a pagan ritual
afterward, sparing you the need to die in a painful way.&#8221; He
turned to her Lifeless captors. &#8220;Tie her to the
altar.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri struggled against the
Lifeless which were holding her by the shoulders, but it was
useless. They were terribly strong, and even without them, her
hands were tied together. &#8220;Bluefingers!&#8221; she snapped,
holding his eyes. &#8220;I will <i>not</i> die tied to some rock
like a useless maid from one of the stories. You want me dead, then
have the decency to let me die standing up.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers hesitated, but the
authority in her voice actually seemed to make him cringe. He
raised a hand, stopping the Lifeless as they pulled her to the
altar.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Very well,&#8221; he
said.&#160; &#8220;Hold her tightly.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You realize the
wonderful opportunity you waste by killing me,&#8221; she said as
he approached.&#160; &#8220;The wife of the God King would make a
wonderful hostage. You are a fool to kill me, and. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He ignored her this time,
taking the knife, placing it against her chest. She started to feel
numb. She was going to die. She was actually going to
<i>die</i>.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And the war would start.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Please,&#8221; she
whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He looked at her, hesitated,
then grew grim and pressed with the dagger.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The building began to
shake.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers looked to the side
in alarm, glancing toward several of his scribes. They shook their
heads in confusion.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Earthquake?&#8221; one
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The floor began to turn white.
The color moved like a wave of sunlight across the land as the sun
rose above the mountains. The walls, the ceiling, the floor--all of
the black stone faded. The priests stepped away from it, looking
frightened, one hopping onto a rug to keep from touching the
strange white stones.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers looked at her,
confused. The ground continued to tremble, but he raised his blade
anyway--raised it, held in fingers that had been stained repeatedly
by ink. And, strangely, Siri saw the whites of his eyes bend and
release a rainbow of colors.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The entire room burst with
color, the white stones fuzzing and splitting, like light through a
prism.&#160; The doors to the room exploded. A twisting mass of
colorful cloths shot through it, like the hundred tentacles of an
enraged sea leviathan. They churned and curled, and Siri recognized
tapestries, carpets, and long lengths of silk from the palace
decorations.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Awakened cloth slapped aside
Lifeless, curling around them, tossing them into the air. Priests
cried out as they were snatched up, and a long, thin length of
violent cloth snapped forward and wrapped around Bluefinger&#8217;s
arm.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The surging mass undulated,
churning, and Siri could finally see a figure walking in the middle
of it. A man of epic proportions. Black of hair, white of face,
youthful in appearance, but of great age. Bluefingers struggled to
ram his knife into Siri&#8217;s chest, but the God King raised a
hand.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You will
<i>stop!</i>&#8221; Susebron said in a clear voice.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Bluefingers froze, looking
toward the God King in amazement. The dagger slipped from his
stunned fingers as an Awakened carpet twisted around him, pulling
him away from the Siri.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri stood, dumbfounded.&#160;
Susebron&#8217;s cloth lifted him up and over beside her, and a
pair of small silken handkerchiefs reached forward, twisting around
the ropes around her hands, untying them with ease.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Freed, she grabbed him, letting
him lift her into his arms, weeping.<br clear="all" style=
'page-break-before: always' /></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Chapter Fifty-Eight</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The closet door opened, letting
in lanternlight. Vivenna looked up, gagged and bound, at
Vasher&#8217;s silhouette. He drug Nightblood behind him,
covered--as always--by his silver sheath.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Looking very tired, Vasher
knelt and undid her gag.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;About time,&#8221; she
noted.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He smiled wanly. &#8220;I
don&#8217;t have any Breath remaining,&#8221; he said quietly.
&#8220;It was very hard to locate you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Where did it all
go?&#8221; she asked as he undid the ropes on her hands.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Nightblood devoured most
of it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I don&#8217;t believe
him,</i> Nightblood said happily. <i>I. . .can&#8217;t really
remember what happened. But we did slay a lot of evil!</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You drew him?&#8221;
Vivenna asked as Vasher untied her feet.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher nodded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna rubbed her hands.
&#8220;Denth?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Dead,&#8221; Vasher
said.&#160; &#8220;No sign of Tonk Fah or the woman, Jewels. I
think they took their money and fled.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So it&#8217;s
over.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher nodded, sliding down to
seat himself, resting his head back against the wall. &#8220;And we
lost.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She frowned, grimacing at the
pain of her wounded shoulder. &#8220;What do you mean?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Vasher was being
employed by some of the Pahn Kahl scribes in the palace,&#8221;
Vasher said. &#8220;They wanted to start a war between Idris and
Hallandren in the hopes that it would weaken both kingdoms and let
Pahn Kahl gain independence.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So? Denth is dead
now.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So are the scribes who
had the Command Phrases for the Lifeless armies,&#8221; Vasher
said. &#8220;And they already sent the troops marching. The
Lifeless left the city over an hour ago, charging for
Idris.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna fell silent.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;All of this fighting,
everything with Denth, that was secondary,&#8221; Vasher said,
knocking his head back against the wall. &#8220;It distracted us. I
couldn&#8217;t get to the Lifeless in time.&#160; The war has
begun. There&#8217;s no way to stop it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron led Siri down into the
depths of the palace. Siri walked beside him, carefully cradled in
his arm, a hundred twisting lengths of cloth spinning around
them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Even with that many things
Awakened, he still had enough Breath to make every color they
passed glow brightly. Of course, that didn&#8217;t work for many of
the stones they passed. Though large chucks of the building were
still black, a good half of it had been turned white.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Not just the grey of normal
Awakening. They had been made a bone white. And, becoming that
white, they now reacted to his incredible BioChroma, splitting back
into colors. <i>Like a circle, somehow,</i> she thought.
<i>Colorful, then white, then back to color.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He led her into a particular
chamber, and she saw what he&#8217;d told her to expect. Scribes
crushed by the carpets that he&#8217;d awakened, bars ripped from
their mountings, walls broken down. A ribbon shot from Susebron,
turning over a body so that she wouldn&#8217;t have to see its
wound. She wasn&#8217;t paying much attention. In the midst of the
rubble were a pair of corpses. One was Blushweaver, bloody and red,
face down. The other was Lightsong, his entire body drained of
color.&#160; Like he was a Lifeless.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;His eyes were closed, and he
slept, as if at peace. A man sat next to him--Lightsong&#8217;s
high priest, holding the god&#8217;s head in his lap.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priest looked up.&#160; He
smiled, though she could see tears in his eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t
understand,&#8221; she said, looking at Susebron.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Lightsong gave his life
to heal me,&#8221; the God King said. &#8220;He somehow knew that
my tongue had been removed.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The Returned can heal
one person,&#8221; the priest said, looking down at his god.
&#8220;It&#8217;s their duty to decide who and when. They come back
for this purpose, some say. To give life to one person who needs
it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I never knew him,&#8221;
Susebron said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He was a very good
person,&#8221; Siri said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I realize that.&#160;
Though I never spoke to him, somehow he was noble enough to die so
that I might live.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priest smiled down.
&#8220;The amazing thing is,&#8221; he said, &#8220;Lightsong did
that twice.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>He told me that I
couldn&#8217;t depend on him in the end, Siri thought,</i> Smiling
slightly, though sorrowful at the same time. <i>I guess he lied
about that. How very like him.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Come,&#8221; Susebron
said.&#160; &#8220;We must gather what is left of my priests. We
have to find a way to stop our armies from destroying your
people.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There has to be a way,
Vasher,&#8221; Vivenna said. She knelt next to him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He tried to push down his rage,
his anger at himself. He&#8217;d come to the city to stop a war.
Once again, he&#8217;d been too late.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Forty thousand
Lifeless,&#8221; he said, pounding his fist against the floor.
&#8220;I can&#8217;t stop that many. Not even with Nightblood and
the Breaths of every person in the city. Even if I could somehow
keep up with their marching, one would eventually get in a lucky
strike and kill me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There <i>has</i> to be a
way,&#8221; Vivenna said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Has to be a way.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I thought the same thing
before,&#8221; he said, putting his head in his hands. &#8220;I
wanted to stop it. But, by the time I realized what was happening,
it had gone to far. It had taken a life of its own.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What are you talking
about?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The Manywar,&#8221;
Vasher whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Silence.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Who <i>are</i>
you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He kept his eyes closed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>They used to call him
Talaxin,</i> Nightblood said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Talaxin,&#8221; Vivenna
said, amused. &#8220;Nightblood, that&#8217;s one of the Five
Scholars. He. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She trailed off.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;. . .he lived over three
hundred years ago,&#8221; she finally said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;BioChroma can keep a man
alive a long time,&#8221; Vasher said, sighing and opening his
eyes. She didn&#8217;t argue.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>They used to call him other
things, too,</i> Nightblood said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;If you&#8217;re really
one of them,&#8221; Vivenna said, &#8220;then you&#8217;ll know how
to stop the Lifeless.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Easy,&#8221; Vasher said
wryly. &#8220;With other Lifeless.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s
it?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The easiest. Barring
that, we can chase them down and grab them one at a time, then
Break them and replace their Command phrases. But, even if you had
the Eighth Heightening to let you break Commands instinctively,
changing so many would take weeks.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shook his head. &#8220;We
could have an army fight them, but they <i>are</i> our army. The
Hallandren forces aren&#8217;t large enough to fight the Lifeless
on their own, and they wouldn&#8217;t be able to get to Idris with
any semblance of speed. The Lifeless will beat them by days.
Lifeless don&#8217;t sleep, don&#8217;t eat, and can march
tirelessly.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ichor-alcohol,&#8221;
Vivenna said. &#8220;They&#8217;ll run out.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s not like
food, Vivenna. It&#8217;s like blood. They need a new supply if
they get cut and drained or if it gets corrupted--but that takes
time. A few will probably stop working without maintenance, but
only a small number.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She fell silent. &#8220;Well
then, we Awaken an army of our own to fight them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He smiled wanly. He felt so
light headed. He&#8217;d bound his wounds--the bad ones,
anyway--but he wouldn&#8217;t be doing any more fighting anytime
soon. Vivenna didn&#8217;t look much better, with that bloody stain
on her shoulder.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Awaken an army of our
own?&#8221; he said. &#8220;First, where would we get the Breath? I
used all of yours.&#160; Even if we find my clothing that still has
some in it, we&#8217;ll only have a couple hundred. It takes one
per Lifeless. We&#8217;re severely overmatched.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The God King,&#8221; she
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Can&#8217;t use his
Breath,&#8221; Vasher said. &#8220;The man&#8217;s tongue was
removed when he was a child.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And you can&#8217;t get
it out of him somehow?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher shrugged. &#8220;The
Tenth Heightening allows a man to Command mentally, without
speaking, but it can take months of training to learn how to do
that--even if you have someone to teach you. I think his priests
must know how, so they can transfer it from one king to another,
but I doubt they&#8217;ve trained him in it yet. One of their
duties is to keep him from using his Breaths in the first
place.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He&#8217;s still our
best option,&#8221; Vivenna said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh? And you&#8217;ll use
his power how? Make Lifeless? Are you forgetting that we&#8217;ll
need to find <i>forty-thousand</i> bodies?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She sighed, resting back
against the wall.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Vasher?</i> Nightblood asked
in his mind. <i>Didn&#8217;t you leave an army behind here last
time?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He didn&#8217;t reply.&#160;
Vivenna opened her eyes, however. Apparently Nightblood had decided
to include her in all of his thoughts now.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What is this?&#8221; she
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Nothing,&#8221; Vasher
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>No, no it&#8217;s not</i>,
Nightblood said. <i>I remember. You talked to that priest, told him
to take care of your Breath for you, should you need it again. And,
you gave him your army. It stopped moving. You called it a gift for
the city. Don&#8217;t you remember? It was just yesterday.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yesterday?&#8221;
Vivenna asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>When the Manywar
stopped,</i> Nightblood said. <i>When was that?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He doesn&#8217;t
understand time,&#8221; Vasher said. &#8220;Don&#8217;t listen to
him.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; Vivenna said,
studying him. &#8220;He knows something. Tell me,
Vasher.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He eyed her.
&#8220;You&#8217;re ask me to give Hallandren a tool, Vivenna. A
terrible tool. Something worse than the Lifeless.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And if those Lifeless
slaughter my people?&#8221; Vivenna asked. &#8220;Could what
you&#8217;re talking about give them more power than
that?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She fell silent.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Do it anyway,&#8221; she
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He glanced at her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Please,
Vasher.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He closed his eyes again,
remembering the destruction he had caused. The wars that had
started.&#160; All because of the things he&#8217;d learned to
create. &#8220;You would give your enemies such power?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They&#8217;re not my
enemies,&#8221; she said. &#8220;Even if I hate them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He regarded her for a moment,
then finally stood. &#8220;Let&#8217;s find the God King. If he
even still lives, then we shall see.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My lord and lady,&#8221;
said the priest, bowing with his face down before them. &#8220;We
heard rumors of a plot to attack the palace. That&#8217;s why we
locked you away. We wanted to protect you!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri looked at the man, then
glanced at Susebron. The God King rubbed his chin in thought. They
both recognized this man as one of his actual priests, rather than
an imposter.&#160; They&#8217;d only been able to determine that
for certain with a handful of priests.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They imprisoned the others,
sending for the city guard to come in and start cleaning up the
wreckage of the palace. &#160;The breeze blew Siri&#8217;s
hair--red, to show her displeasure--as they stood atop the
palace.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There, my lord!&#8221; a
guard said, pointing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron turned, walking over
to the edge of the palace, his twisting cloths still Awakened and
alive. In the distance, Siri could make out a smudge and what
looked like smoke.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The Lifeless
army,&#8221; the guard said. &#8220;Our scouts have confirmed that
it&#8217;s marching toward Idris.&#160; Almost everyone in the city
saw it pass through and out the gates.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That smoke?&#8221; Siri
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Dust of its passing, my
lady,&#8221; the guard said. &#8220;That&#8217;s a lot of
soldiers.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She looked up at Susebron. He
frowned. &#8220;I could stop them.&#8221; His voice was stronger
than she had expected it to be. Deeper.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My lord?&#8221; the
guard asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;With this much
Breath,&#8221; Susebron said. &#8220;I could charge them, use these
cloths to tie them up.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My lord,&#8221; the
guard said hesitantly. &#8220;There are <i>forty thousand</i> of
them. They would cut at the cloth, overwhelm you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron seemed resolute.
&#8220;I have to try.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; Siri said,
laying a hand on his chest.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your people. . .
.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We&#8217;ll send
messengers,&#8221; she said. &#8220;explaining our regret. My
people can withdraw, ambush the Lifeless. We can send troops to
help.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We don&#8217;t have
many,&#8221; he said. &#8220;And they won&#8217;t get there very
quickly. Could your people really get away?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>No,</i> she thought, heart
wrenching. <i>But you don&#8217;t know that. You&#8217;re innocent
enough to believe it.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her people might survive as a
whole, but many would die. Susebron getting himself killed fighting
the creatures wouldn&#8217;t be of much use, however. He had
amazing power, but fighting so many Lifeless was well beyond the
scope of what he could do.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He saw the look in her face,
and surprisingly, he read it well. &#8220;You don&#8217;t believe
that they can get away,&#8221; he said. &#8220;You&#8217;re just
trying to protect me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Surprising how well he
understands me already.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My lord!&#8221; a voice
said from behind.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron turned, looking across
the top of the palace. They&#8217;d come to the top partially to
get a look at the Lifeless, but also because both Siri and Susebron
were tired of being closed in tight quarters. They wanted to be in
the open, where it would be harder to sneak up on them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A guard came out of the
stairwell, then walked over, hand on sword. He bowed. &#8220;My
lord. There&#8217;s someone here to see you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t want to
see anyone,&#8221; Susebron said. &#8220;Who are they?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Amazing how well he can
speak,</i> she thought. <i>Never having had a tongue. What did
Lightsong&#8217;s Breath do? It healed more than his body. It gave
him the capacity to use the regrow tongue.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My lord,&#8221; the
guard said. &#8220;The visitor. . .she has the royal
locks!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221; Siri asked
with surprise.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The guard turned,
and--shockingly--Vivenna stepped up onto the roof of the palace. Or
Siri <i>thought</i> it was Vivenna. She wore trousers and a tunic,
with a sword tied at her waist, and she appeared to have a bloody
wound on one arm. She saw Siri, and smiled, her hair turning yellow
with joy.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Vivenna&#8217;s hair
changing?</i> Siri thought. <i>It can&#8217;t be her.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But &#160;the woman laughed,
dashing across the top of the roof. Some guards stopped her, but
Siri waved for them to let the woman pass. She ran over, embracing
Siri.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Vivenna?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The woman smiled ruefully.
&#8220;Yes, mostly,&#8221; she said. She glanced at Susebron.
&#8220;I&#8217;m sorry,&#8221; Vivenna said quietly. &#8220;I came
to the city to try rescuing you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That was very kind of
you,&#8221; Siri said. &#8220;But I don&#8217;t need
rescuing.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna frowned more
deeply.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And who is this,
Siri?&#8221; Susebron asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My eldest
sister.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ah,&#8221; Susebron
said, bowing his head cordially. &#8220;Siri has told me much about
you, Princess Vivenna. I wish we could have met under better
circumstances.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna stared at the man with
shock.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He&#8217;s not really as
bad as they say,&#8221; Siri said, smiling. &#8220;Most of the
time.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That is sarcasm,&#8221;
Susebron said. &#8220;She is quite fond of it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna turned from the God
King. &#8220;Our homeland is under attack.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I know,&#8221; Siri
said.&#160; &#8220;We&#8217;re working on that. I&#8217;m preparing
messengers to send to Father.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I have a better
way,&#8221; Vivenna said. &#8220;But you&#8217;ll have to trust
me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course,&#8221; Siri
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I have a friend who
needs to speak with the God King,&#8221; Vivenna said.
&#8220;Alone.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Siri paused hesitantly.&#160;
<i>Silly,</i> she thought. <i>This is Vivenna. I can trust
her.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She&#8217;d thought she could
trust Bluefingers too. Vivenna regarded her with a curious
expression.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;If this help save
Idris,&#8221; Susebron said, &#8220;then I will do it. Who is this
person?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Moments later, Vivenna stood
quietly on the roof of the palace, the God King of Hallandren
beside her. A short distance away, Vasher stood with arms upraised,
letting a couple of soldiers search him for weapons. He had wisely
left Nightblood behind and didn&#8217;t have anything else on him.
He didn&#8217;t even have any Breath.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your sister is an
amazing woman,&#8221; the God King said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna glanced at him. This
was the man she was to have married. The terrible creature that she
was supposed to have given herself to. She&#8217;d never expected
to end up like this, pleasantly chatting with him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She&#8217;d also never expected
that she&#8217;d like him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was a quick judgment. She
had gotten over chastising herself for making those, though she had
learned to leave herself open to reinterpret. She saw kindness in
his eyes. How had a man like this ended up as God King of terrible
Hallandren?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; she said.
&#8220;She is.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I love her,&#8221;
Susebron said. &#8220;I would have you know this.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Slowly, Vivenna nodded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;To the side, the guards took
Vasher around to a changing screen. They obviously wanted to be
certain none of his clothing was Awakened. He left a few moments
later, wearing a wrap around his waist, but nothing else. His chest
was cut and bruised, and Vivenna thought it shameful that he should
be forced to undergo such humiliation.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He suffered it, walking across
the rooftop with an escort. Siri stood in the distance, watching
the Lifeless churn dust in the distance.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>She&#8217;s changed so
much,</i> Vivenna thought. <i>When did she become so regal, with
that commanding bearing and ability to keep her hair black?</i> Her
little sister, no longer quite as little, seemed to wear the
expensive dress well. It fit her. Odd.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;As Vasher approached, Siri
walked back over, eyes watching him keenly. She no longer seemed to
take pride in being unimportant. Vasher arrived, and Susebron
dismissed the guards. Behind him, the jungles extended to the
north, toward Idris.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher glanced at Vivenna, and
she thought he might tell her to go. However, he finally just
turned away from her, looking resigned.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Who are you?&#8221;
Susebron asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The one responsible for
you getting your tongue cut out,&#8221; Vasher said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron raised an eyebrow.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher closed his eyes, and
muttered something. A Command, which Vivenna could barely
hear--and, with his hand placed on his chest, it seemed that the
Awakening was directed toward <i>him</i>. &#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She only caught one word.
&#8220;Return.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He started to glow.&#160; Not
like a lantern would glow, not as the sun glowed, but with an aura
that made colors brighter. Vivenna started, eyes opening wide as
Vasher increased in size. He adjusted the wrap at his waist, making
room for his growth. His chest became more firm, the muscles
bulging, and the beard scrub on his face retreated, leaving him
clean shaven.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;His hair turned golden. He
still bore the cuts to his body, but they seemed
inconsequential.&#160; He seemed. . .divine. The God King watched
impassively. He was now faced by a fellow god, a man of his own
stature.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t care if
you believe me or not,&#8221; Vasher said, his voice sounding more.
. .noble. &#8220;But I will have you know that I left something
here, long ago. A wealth of power that I promised to one day
recover. I gave instructions for its care, and a charge that it
should not be used. The priests, apparently, took this to
heart.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron, surprisingly, dropped
to one knee. &#8220;My lord. Where have you been?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Paying for what
I&#8217;ve done,&#8221; Vasher said. &#8220;Or trying to. My
presence is unimportant. Stand.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>What is going on?</i>
Vivenna thought. Siri looked equally confused, and the sisters
shared a look.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron stood, though he kept
his posture reverent.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You have a group of
rogue Lifeless,&#8221; Vasher said. &#8220;You&#8217;ve lost
control of them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m sorry, my
lord,&#8221; the God King said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher regarded him.&#160; Then
he glanced at Vivenna. She nodded her head. &#8220;I trust
him.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s not about
trust,&#8221; Vasher said, turning back to Susebron. &#8220;Either
way, I am going to give you something.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My army,&#8221; Vasher
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron frowned. &#8220;But,
my lord. Our Lifeless just marched away, to attack
Idris.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; Vasher said.
&#8220;Not that army. I&#8217;m going to give you the one I left
behind three hundred years ago. The force by which I made
Hallandren to stop its war.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Stop the Manywar, my
lord?&#8221; Susebron said. &#8220;You did that by
negotiation.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher snorted. &#8220;You
don&#8217;t know much about war, do you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The God King paused, then shook
his head. &#8220;No.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, learn,&#8221;
Vasher said. &#8220;Because I charge you with this army. Use it to
protect, not attack.&#160; Only use it in an emergency.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The God King nodded dumbly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher glanced at him, then
sighed. &#8220;Your arms become flesh, your eyes gain sight, your
feet learn to step.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221; Susebron
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s a
Command,&#8221; Vasher said. &#8220;The one you can use to Awaken
the stone statues I left in your city.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My lord!&#8221; Susebron
said. &#8220;Stone cannot be awakened.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It can if it has in the
shape of a man and has human bones.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Human bones. Vivenna felt a
chill. He&#8217;d told her that bones were usually bad to awaken
for it was hard to keep in them in the right shape of a man during
the Awakening process.&#160; That, and they took some fifty Breath
to awaken each.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But. . .what if those bones
were encased in stone? Stone which held their shape, stone which
would protect them from harm, make them nearly impossible to hurt
or break. . . .</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Colors!</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Go,&#8221; Vasher
said.&#160; &#8220;There are some thousand D&#8217;Denir in the
city. You should have enough Breath to awaken them all, and you are
of the Tenth Heightening. You can Awaken without touching objects
directly, so you need not feel the bones inside to bring them to
life. This is an army that, of all men, only <i>you</i> &#160;can
use. Your thousand should be able to hunt down and fight that army
of Lifeless. Their weapons will be virtually useless against the
stone.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Susebron nodded again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Do better with them than
I did,&#8221; Vasher said, turning away.</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h1>Epilogue</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The next day, an army of a
thousand stone soldiers charged from the gates of the city, running
down the pathway after the Lifeless who had left the day
before.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna stood outside the city,
leaning against the wall, watching them go.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>How often did I stand
beneath the gaze of those D&#8217;Denir,</i> she thought. <i>Never
knowing their purpose?</i> Everyone said that Peacegiver had left
them behind as a gift to the people, a symbol to remind them not to
go to war. She&#8217;d always found it strange. A bunch of statues
of soldiers, a gift to remind the people that war was terrible?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And yet, they were a gift. The
gift that had ended the Manywar.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She turned toward Vasher.&#160;
He leaned against the city wall, Nightblood in one hand. His form
had returned back to that of a regular person, scraggly hair and
all.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What was that first
thing you taught me about Awakening?&#8221; she asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That we don&#8217;t know
much?&#8221; he asked. &#8220;That there are hundreds, perhaps
thousands, of Commands that we haven&#8217;t discovered
yet?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s the
one,&#8221; she said, turning to watch the Awakened statues charge
into the distance. &#8220;I think you were right.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You think?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She smiled. &#8220;Will they
really be able to stop the Lifeless?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Probably,&#8221; Vasher
said, shrugging. &#8220;They&#8217;ll be fast enough to catch
up--the Lifeless won&#8217;t be able to march as quickly as men
with stone feet. I&#8217;ve seen those things fight before.
They&#8217;re <i>really</i> tough to beat.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She nodded. &#8220;So my people
will be safe.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Until that God King
decides to use the statues to conquer them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She snorted. &#8220;Has anyone
ever told you that you&#8217;re a grump, Vasher?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Finally,</i> Nightblood
said. <i>Someone agrees with me!</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher scowled.
&#8220;I&#8217;m not a grump,&#8221; he said. &#8220;I&#8217;m just
bad with words.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She smiled.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, that&#8217;s it,
then,&#8221; he said, picking up his pack. &#8220;See you
around.&#8221; With that, he began to walk along the pathway away
from the city.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna walked up next to
him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What are you
doing?&#8221; he asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Going with you,&#8221;
she said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;re a
princess,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Stay with that girl who rules
Hallandren or go back to Idris and be proclaimed as the one who
saved them. Either one will give you a happy life.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; she said.
&#8220;I don&#8217;t think so. Even if my father <i>did</i> take me
back, I doubt that I&#8217;ll ever be able to live a happy life in
either plush palace or a quiet town.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;ll think
differently, after a little time on the road. It&#8217;s a
difficult life.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I know,&#8221; she
said.&#160; &#8220;But. . .well, everything I&#8217;ve
been--everything I was trained to do--has been a lie wrapped in
hatred. I don&#8217;t want to go back to it. I&#8217;m not that
person. I don&#8217;t want to be.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Who are you,
then?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t
know,&#8221; she said, nodding toward the horizon. &#8220;But I
think I&#8217;ll find it out there.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They walked for another short
time.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your family will worry
about you,&#8221; Vasher finally said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They&#8217;ll get over
it,&#8221; she replied.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Finally, he just shrugged.
&#8220;All right. I don&#8217;t really care. You might as well
come.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She smiled. <i>It&#8217;s
true,</i> she thought. <i>I don&#8217;t want to go back.</i>
Princess Vivenna was dead. She&#8217;d died on the streets of
T&#8217;Telir. Vivenna the Awakener had no desire to bring her
back.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So,&#8221; she asked as
they walked along the jungle road, &#8220;I can&#8217;t figure it
out. Which one are you?&#160; Klad, who started the war, or
Peacegiver, who ended it?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He didn&#8217;t answer
immediately. &#8220;It&#8217;s odd,&#8221; he finally said,
&#8220;what history does to a man. I guess people couldn&#8217;t
understand why I suddenly changed. Why I stopped fighting, and why
I brought my armies back to seize control of my own kingdom.&#160;
So they decided I was two people. A man can get confused about his
identity when things like that happen.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She grunted in assent.&#160;
&#8220;You&#8217;re still Returned, though.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course I am,&#8221;
he said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Where did you get the
Breath?&#8221; she asked. &#8220;The one a week you need to
survive.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I carried it with
me,&#8221; Vasher said. &#8220;Returned aren&#8217;t quite what
people think they are. They don&#8217;t have hundreds or thousands
of Breath.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They&#8217;re of the
Fifth Heightening,&#8221; Vasher said, interrupting her. &#8220;But
they don&#8217;t get there by number of Breaths, but by quality.
&#160;Returned have a single, powerful Breath. One that takes them
all the way to the Fifth Heightening. It&#8217;s a. . .divine
Breath, you might say. But their body feeds on Breath, like. . .
.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The sword.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher nodded.&#160;
&#8220;Nightblood only needs it when he&#8217;s drawn. Returned
feed off their Breath once a week. So, if you don&#8217;t give them
one, they essentially eat themselves--devouring their one, single
Breath. Killing them. However, if you give them extra Breath, on
top of their single divine one, they&#8217;ll feed off those each
week.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So the Hallandren gods
could be fed more than one,&#8221; Vivenna said. &#8220;The could
have a stock of Breaths, a buffer to keep them alive if one
couldn&#8217;t be provided.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vasher nodded.&#160;
&#8220;Wouldn&#8217;t make them as dependant on their religion to
care for them, though.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s a cynical
way of looking at it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shrugged.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So you&#8217;re going to
burn up a Breath every week,&#8221; she said. &#8220;Reducing our
stock?&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He nodded. &#8220;I used to
have thousands of Breath.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Thousands? But it would
take you years and years to. . . .&#8221; she trailed off.
He&#8217;d been alive for over three hundred years. At fifty
Breaths a year, that <i>was</i> thousands of Breath.
&#8220;You&#8217;re an expensive guy to keep around,&#8221; she
noted. &#8220;How do you keep yourself from looking like a
Returned?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s my
secret,&#8221; he said, not looking at her. &#8220;Though you
should have figured out that Returned can change their
forms.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She raised an eyebrow.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;ve got
Returned blood in you,&#8221; he said. &#8220;The royal line. Where
do you think that ability to change your hair color comes
from?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Does that mean I can
change more than just my hair?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Maybe,&#8221; he
said.&#160; &#8220;Takes time to learn. Go stroll around the
Hallandren Court of the Gods sometime, though. You&#8217;ll find
that the Gods look exactly as they think they should. The old ones
look old, the heroic ones become strong, the ones who think a
Goddess should be beautiful become unnaturally voluptuous.
It&#8217;s all about how they perceive themselves.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She nodded, her life sense
letting her feel the jungle around them. They&#8217;d recovered
Vasher&#8217;s cloak, shirt, and trousers--the ones that Denth had
originally taken from him.&#160; There had been enough Breath in
those to split among the two of them and get them each to the
Second Heightening. It wasn&#8217;t as much as she was used to, but
it was a fair bit better than nothing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So where are we going,
anyway?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ever heard of Kuth and
Huth?&#8221; he asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Sure,&#8221; she
said.&#160; &#8220;They were your main rivals in the
Manywar.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Somebody&#8217;s trying
to restore them,&#8221; he said. &#8220;A tyrant of some kind.
He&#8217;s apparently recruited an old friend of mine.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Another one?&#8221; she
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shrugged. &#8220;There were
five of us. Me, Denth, Shashara, Arsteel, and Yesteel. It looks
like Yesteel has resurfaced, finally.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He&#8217;s related to
Arsteel?&#8221; Vivenna guessed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Brothers.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Great.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I know. He&#8217;s the
one who originally figured out how to make Ichor-Alcohol. I hear
rumors that he&#8217;s got a new form of it. More
potent.&#8221;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Even better.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They walked in silence for a
time longer.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I&#8217;m bored,</i>
Nightblood said. <i>Pay attention to me. Why doesn&#8217;t anyone
ever talk to me?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Because you&#8217;re
annoying,&#8221; Vasher snapped.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The sword huffed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What&#8217;s your real
name?&#8221; Vivenna finally asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My real name?&#8221;
Vasher asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; she
said.&#160; &#8220;Everyone calls you things. Peacegiver. Klad.
Vasher. Talaxin. Is that last one your real name, the name of the
scholar?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He shook his head.&#160;
&#8220;No.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, what is it,
then?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t
know,&#8221; he said. &#8220;I can&#8217;t remember the time before
I Returned.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh,&#8221; she said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;When I came back,
however, I did get a name,&#8221; he finally said. &#8220;The Cult
of Returned--those who eventually founded the Hallandren Iridescent
Tones--found me and kept me alive with Breaths. They gave me a
name. I didn&#8217;t like it much. Didn&#8217;t seem to fit me,
considering my temper.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well?&#8221; she
asked.&#160; &#8220;What was it?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Warbreaker the
Peaceful,&#8221; he finally admitted.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She raised an eyebrow.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What I can&#8217;t
figure out,&#8221; he said, &#8220;is whether that was truly
prophetic, or if I&#8217;m just trying to live up to it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Does it matter?&#8221;
she asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He walked for a time in
silence. &#8220;No,&#8221; he finally said. &#8220;No, I guess it
doesn&#8217;t. I just wish I knew if there really were something
spiritual about the Returns, or if it were all just
happenstance.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Probably not for us to
know.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Probably,&#8221; he
agreed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Silence.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Should have called you
Wartlover the ugly,&#8221; she finally said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Very mature,&#8221; he
replied. &#8220;You really think those sorts of comments are proper
for a princess?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She smiled broadly. &#8220;I
don&#8217;t care,&#8221; she said. &#8220;And I never have to
again.&#8221;</p>
<span style=
'font-size:14.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<h1>Ars Arcanum</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'><span style=
'font-size:16.0pt;line-height:200%'>Table of the
Heightenings</span></p>
<table class="MsoTableGrid" border="1" cellspacing="0" cellpadding=
"0" style='border-collapse:collapse;border:none'>
<tr>
<td width="103" valign="top" style=
'width:77.4pt;border:solid windowtext 1.0pt; padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">Heightening Number</p>
</td>
<td width="204" valign="top" style=
'width:153.0pt;border:solid windowtext 1.0pt; border-left:none;padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">Approximate Breath Needed to Reach this
Heightening</p>
</td>
<td width="228" valign="top" style=
'width:171.0pt;border:solid windowtext 1.0pt; border-left:none;padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">Effects of the Heightening</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="103" valign="top" style=
'width:77.4pt;border:solid windowtext 1.0pt; border-top:none;padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">First</p>
</td>
<td width="204" valign="top" style=
'width:153.0pt;border-top:none;border-left: none;border-bottom:solid windowtext 1.0pt;border-right:solid windowtext 1.0pt; padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">50</p>
</td>
<td width="228" valign="top" style=
'width:171.0pt;border-top:none;border-left: none;border-bottom:solid windowtext 1.0pt;border-right:solid windowtext 1.0pt; padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">Aura Recognition</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="103" valign="top" style=
'width:77.4pt;border:solid windowtext 1.0pt; border-top:none;padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">Second</p>
</td>
<td width="204" valign="top" style=
'width:153.0pt;border-top:none;border-left: none;border-bottom:solid windowtext 1.0pt;border-right:solid windowtext 1.0pt; padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">200</p>
</td>
<td width="228" valign="top" style=
'width:171.0pt;border-top:none;border-left: none;border-bottom:solid windowtext 1.0pt;border-right:solid windowtext 1.0pt; padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">Perfect Pitch</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="103" valign="top" style=
'width:77.4pt;border:solid windowtext 1.0pt; border-top:none;padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">Third</p>
</td>
<td width="204" valign="top" style=
'width:153.0pt;border-top:none;border-left: none;border-bottom:solid windowtext 1.0pt;border-right:solid windowtext 1.0pt; padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">600</p>
</td>
<td width="228" valign="top" style=
'width:171.0pt;border-top:none;border-left: none;border-bottom:solid windowtext 1.0pt;border-right:solid windowtext 1.0pt; padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">Perfect Color Recognition</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="103" valign="top" style=
'width:77.4pt;border:solid windowtext 1.0pt; border-top:none;padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">Fourth</p>
</td>
<td width="204" valign="top" style=
'width:153.0pt;border-top:none;border-left: none;border-bottom:solid windowtext 1.0pt;border-right:solid windowtext 1.0pt; padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">1,000</p>
</td>
<td width="228" valign="top" style=
'width:171.0pt;border-top:none;border-left: none;border-bottom:solid windowtext 1.0pt;border-right:solid windowtext 1.0pt; padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">Perfect Life Recognition</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="103" valign="top" style=
'width:77.4pt;border:solid windowtext 1.0pt; border-top:none;padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">Fifth</p>
</td>
<td width="204" valign="top" style=
'width:153.0pt;border-top:none;border-left: none;border-bottom:solid windowtext 1.0pt;border-right:solid windowtext 1.0pt; padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">2,000</p>
</td>
<td width="228" valign="top" style=
'width:171.0pt;border-top:none;border-left: none;border-bottom:solid windowtext 1.0pt;border-right:solid windowtext 1.0pt; padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">Agelessness</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="103" valign="top" style=
'width:77.4pt;border:solid windowtext 1.0pt; border-top:none;padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">Sixth</p>
</td>
<td width="204" valign="top" style=
'width:153.0pt;border-top:none;border-left: none;border-bottom:solid windowtext 1.0pt;border-right:solid windowtext 1.0pt; padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">3,500</p>
</td>
<td width="228" valign="top" style=
'width:171.0pt;border-top:none;border-left: none;border-bottom:solid windowtext 1.0pt;border-right:solid windowtext 1.0pt; padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">Instinctive Awakening</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="103" valign="top" style=
'width:77.4pt;border:solid windowtext 1.0pt; border-top:none;padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">Seventh</p>
</td>
<td width="204" valign="top" style=
'width:153.0pt;border-top:none;border-left: none;border-bottom:solid windowtext 1.0pt;border-right:solid windowtext 1.0pt; padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">5,000</p>
</td>
<td width="228" valign="top" style=
'width:171.0pt;border-top:none;border-left: none;border-bottom:solid windowtext 1.0pt;border-right:solid windowtext 1.0pt; padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">Invested Breath Recognition</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="103" valign="top" style=
'width:77.4pt;border:solid windowtext 1.0pt; border-top:none;padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">Eighth</p>
</td>
<td width="204" valign="top" style=
'width:153.0pt;border-top:none;border-left: none;border-bottom:solid windowtext 1.0pt;border-right:solid windowtext 1.0pt; padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">10,000</p>
</td>
<td width="228" valign="top" style=
'width:171.0pt;border-top:none;border-left: none;border-bottom:solid windowtext 1.0pt;border-right:solid windowtext 1.0pt; padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">Command Breaking</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="103" valign="top" style=
'width:77.4pt;border:solid windowtext 1.0pt; border-top:none;padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">Ninth</p>
</td>
<td width="204" valign="top" style=
'width:153.0pt;border-top:none;border-left: none;border-bottom:solid windowtext 1.0pt;border-right:solid windowtext 1.0pt; padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">20,000</p>
</td>
<td width="228" valign="top" style=
'width:171.0pt;border-top:none;border-left: none;border-bottom:solid windowtext 1.0pt;border-right:solid windowtext 1.0pt; padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">Greater Awakening,</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">Audible Command</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="103" valign="top" style=
'width:77.4pt;border:solid windowtext 1.0pt; border-top:none;padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">Tenth</p>
</td>
<td width="204" valign="top" style=
'width:153.0pt;border-top:none;border-left: none;border-bottom:solid windowtext 1.0pt;border-right:solid windowtext 1.0pt; padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">50,000</p>
</td>
<td width="228" valign="top" style=
'width:171.0pt;border-top:none;border-left: none;border-bottom:solid windowtext 1.0pt;border-right:solid windowtext 1.0pt; padding:0cm 5.4pt 0cm 5.4pt'>
<p class="MsoNormal">Color Distortion, Perfect Invocation, ????</p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">Note One: Most Reaching above the sixth
Heightening is incredibly rare, and so few people understand the
powers of the Seventh Heightening and above. Very little research
has been done. The only known people to ever reach the Eighth
Heightening and above are the Hallandren God Kings.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">Note Two: Returned appear to achieve the Fifth
Heightening by virtue of their Breath. It is theorized that they do
not actually receive two thousand Breaths when they Return, but
instead receive a single, powerful Breath which brings with it the
powers of all five first Heightenings.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">Note Three: The numbers used in the table
above are only estimates, as very little is known about the upper
Heightenings. Indeed, even for the lower levels, fewer or more
Breaths may be required to achieve a given Heightening, depending
on circumstances and the strength of the Breath.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">Note Four: Each gained Breath grants some
things, no matter which Heightening an Awakener has achieved. The
more breath one has, the more resistant to disease and aging a
person is, the easier it is for them to distinguish colors, and the
stronger their life sense.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">Heightening Powers:</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal"><b>Aura Recognition</b>: The First Heightening
grants a person the ability to see the Breath Auras of others
instinctively. This allows them to judge roughly how many Breaths
the person contains and the general health of that Breath. Persons
without this Heightening have a much more difficult time judging
auras, and must rely on how deeply the colors around a person
change when they enter the aura. Without at least the First
Heightening, it is generally impossible for the naked eye to notice
an Awakener with fewer than about thirty Breaths.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal"><b>Perfect Pitch:</b> The Second Heightening
grants perfect pitch to those who achieve it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal"><b>Perfect Color Recognition</b>: While each
gained Breath leads a person to greater appreciation of colors, it
isn&#8217;t until one reaches the Third Heightening that they can
instantly and instinctively determine exact shades of colors and
their hue harmonics.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal"><b>Perfect Life Sense:</b> At the Fourth
Heightening, an Awakener&#8217;s life sense achieves its maximum
strength.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal"><b>Agelessness</b>: At the Fifth Heightening,
an Awakener&#8217;s resistance to aging and disease reaches its
maximum strength. These persons are immune to most toxins,
including the effects of alcohol, and most physical ailments.&#160;
(Such as headaches, colds, and the like.) The person no longer
ages, and becomes functionally immortal.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal"><b>Instinctive Awakening</b>: All persons of
the Sixth Heightening and above immediately understand and can use
basic Awakening Commands without training or practice. More
difficult Commands are easier for them to master and to
discover.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal"><b>Breath Recognition</b>: Those few persons
who have reached the Seventh Heightening gain the ability to
recognize the auras of objects, and can tell when something has
been Invested with Breath via Awakening.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal"><b>Command Breaking</b>: Any persons of the
Eighth Heightening or more gain the ability to over-ride Commands
in other Invested objects, including Lifeless. This requires
concentration and leaves the Awakener exhausted.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal"><b>Greater Awakening</b>: Persons of the Ninth
Heightening are reportedly able to Awaken stone and steel, though
doing so requires large Investitures of Breath and specialize
Commands. &#160;This ability has not been studied or confirmed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal"><b>Audible Command</b>: Persons of the Ninth
Heightening also gain the ability to Awaken objects which they are
not physically touching, but which are within the sound of their
voice.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal"><b>Color Distortion</b>: One of the many
abilities gained by the Tenth Heightening is the natural and
intrinsic ability of the Awakener to bend light around white
objects, creating colors from them as if from a prism.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal"><b>Perfect Invocation</b>: Awakeners of the
Tenth Heightening can draw more color from objects they use to fuel
their art. This leaves objects drained to white, rather than
grey.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal"><b>Other</b>: There are rumors of other powers
granted by the Tenth Heightening which are not understood or have
not been made known by those who have achieved it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<span style=
'font-size:14.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<h1>Revisions done in Version 4.0</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;This draft was still largely
working on medium-level and large-level problems. Because of this,
I haven&#8217;t yet &#8216;spot fixed&#8217; chapters. Larger
changes for this version include:</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A rewrite of the character
Peprin, who&#8217;s name has been changed to Parlin. The old name
fit the old character; the new character was different enough that
I wanted a new feel for his name. Peprin wasn&#8217;t working, in
my opinion, as he was too over-the-top. He was a little TOO dense,
and we already had plenty of humor in the Vivenna sections--humor
done much better and more intelligently by Denth and Tonks. I felt
that Peprin&#8217;s goofiness was detracting from the story and
wasn&#8217;t gaining anything, so I backed off and made the
character far less &#8216;present&#8217; in the narrative. In doing
so, I hope to actually make him more sympathetic. This may take
another draft to get right.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vivenna is now more aware of
why her father sent Siri instead of her. Readers were feeling that
Vivenna was too dense in these early chapters. It was obvious to
them why the king would make the change; it should have been
obvious to Vivenna. I agreed as I re-read the narrative, and did a
reworking here. This effected her motivations for going to
T&#8217;Telir in the first place, and I think strengthens her as a
character.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;My agent wanted more of a sense
of danger in the early chapters--a better understanding of the
oncoming war, the inevitability, and the threat it posed. I worked
on this noticeably at the beginning in an attempt to establish
better &#8216;rooting interest&#8217; for Idris. This also played
in with Vivenna&#8217;s reworked motivations at the beginning.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I split the &#8220;Vivenna
living on the streets&#8221; chapter in two and added a little bit
more material there to draw out her time. I felt that having her
get tossed onto the streets in one chapter, then get captured again
in the very next seriously weakened this phase of the book. The
reader and she both needed more time to suffer.&#160; It&#8217;s
still not terribly long, but I think that the slight fiddling with
pacing here will have a large impact on the tempo of the story
here.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Slightly better transition of
Vivenna being scared of Vasher and agreeing to help him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A lot of people were having
trouble understanding 1) Why Susebron could awaken objects at the
end without dying and 2) Why the statues could be Awakened in the
first place. I decided that for the first, I would simply be more
explicit in my explanations. For the second, I decided that I
needed to revise the narrative to fix a plot hole. Hence the change
to give the statues human bones, which I had considered in the
first draft and discarded. I think it works better here. Both of
these things are going to require a little more polishing in draft
#5, but I think the climax finally has all of the explanations it
needs.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I filled out what the different
Heightenings are and explained them in more detail, including an
Ars Arcanum.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I made a
bunch of smaller changes on the paragraph or scene level to smooth
the story. I probably also introduced a lot of typos in doing so.
;)</p>
<span style=
'font-size:14.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<h1>Sample Chapters of ELANTRIS</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;This book, originally released
in 2005, is now out in paperback. Hardback copies are still on
Amazon as of January 2008. It won the Romantic Times award for best
epic fantasy of the year and was chosen by Barnes and Noble.com as
the best sf/fantasy book of the year.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It is a stand-alone epic
fantasy novel, and was the first book I published.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h2>Prologue</h2>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Elantris was beautiful, once.
It was called the city of the gods: a place of power, radiance, and
magic. Visitors say that the very stones glowed with an inner
light, and that the city contained wondrous arcane marvels. At
night, Elantris shone like a great silvery fire, visible even from
a great distance.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Yet, as magnificent as Elantris
had been, its inhabitants had been more so. Their hair a brilliant
white, their skin an almost metallic silver, the Elantrians seemed
to shine like the city itself. Legends claimed that they were
immortal, or at least nearly so. Their bodies healed quickly, and
they were blessed with great strength, insight, and speed. They
could perform magics with a bare wave of the hand; men visited
Elantris from all across Opelon to receive Elantrian healings,
food, or wisdom. They were divinities.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And anyone could become
one.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The Shaod, it was called. The
Transformation. It struck randomly--usually at night, during the
mysterious hours when life slowed to rest. The Shaod could take
beggar, craftsman, nobleman, or warrior. When it came, the
fortunate person&#8217;s life ended and began anew; he would
discard his old, mundane existence, and move to Elantris. Elantris,
where he could live in bliss, rule in wisdom, and be worshipped for
eternity.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Eternity ended ten years
ago.<br clear="all" style='page-break-before:always' />
Part One: The Shadow of Elantris</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h2>Chapter One</h2>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Prince Raoden of Arelon awoke
early that morning, completely unaware that he had been damned for
all eternity. Still drowsy, Raoden sat up, blinking in the soft
morning light.&#160; Just outside his open balcony windows he could
see the enormous city of Elantris in the distance, its stark walls
casting a deep shadow over the smaller city of Kae, where Raoden
lived. Elantris&#8217;s walls were incredibly high, but Raoden
could see the tops of black towers rising behind them, their broken
spires a clue to the fallen majesty hidden within.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The abandoned city seemed
darker than usual. Raoden stared at it for a moment, then glanced
away. The huge Elantrian walls were impossible to ignore, but
people of Kae tried very hard to do just that. &#160;It was painful
to remember the city&#8217;s beauty, to wonder how ten years ago
the blessing of the Shaod had become a curse instead. . . .</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Raoden shook his head, climbing
out of bed. It was unusually warm for such an early hour--he
didn&#8217;t feel even a bit chilly as he threw on his robe, then
pulled the servant&#8217;s cord beside his bed, indicating that he
wanted breakfast.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That was another odd thing. He
was hungry--<i>very</i> hungry. Almost ravenous. He had never liked
large breakfasts, but this morning he found himself waiting
impatiently for his meal to arrive. Finally, he decided to send
someone to see what was taking so long.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ien?&#8221; he called in
the unlit chambers.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;There was no response.&#160;
Raoden frowned slightly at the Seon&#8217;s absence. Where could
Ien be?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Raoden stood, and as he did,
his eyes fell on Elantris again. Resting in the great City&#8217;s
shadow, Kae seemed like an insignificant village by comparison.
Elantris. An enormous, ebony block--not really a city anymore, just
the corpse of one. Raoden shivered slightly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A knock came at his door.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Finally,&#8221; Raoden
said, walking over to pull open the door. Old Elao stood outside
with a tray of fruit and warm bread.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The tray dropped to the ground
with a crash, slipping from the stunned maid&#8217;s fingers even
as Raoden reached out to accept it. Raoden froze, the tray&#8217;s
metallic ring echoing through the silent morning hallway.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Merciful Domi!&#8221;
Elao whispered, her eyes horrified and her hand trembling as she
reached up to grab the Korathi pendant at her neck.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Raoden reached out, but the
maid took a quivering step away, stumbling on a small melon in her
haste to escape.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221; Raoden
asked.&#160; Then he saw his hand. Illuminated by the
hallway&#8217;s flickering lantern, Raoden could see what had been
hidden in the shadows of his darkened room.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Raoden turned, throwing
furniture out of his way as he stumbled to the tall mirror at the
side of his chambers. The dawn&#8217;s light had grown just strong
enough for him to see the reflection that stared back at him. A
stranger&#8217;s reflection.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;His brown eyes were the same,
though they were wide with terror. His hair, however, had changed
from sandy blonde to limp gray. The skin was the worst. The
mirrored face was covered with sickly black patches, like dark
bruises. The splotches could only mean one thing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The Shaod had come upon
him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The Elantris city gate boomed
shut behind him with a shocking sound of finality. Raoden slumped
against it, thoughts numbed by the day&#8217;s events.</p>
<p class="MsoBodyText2">&#160;&#160;&#160; <span style=
'font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'>It was as if his memories
belonged to another person. His father, King Iadon, hadn&#8217;t
met Raoden&#8217;s gaze as he ordered the priests to prepare his
son and throw him into Elantris. It had been done swiftly and
quietly; Iadon couldn&#8217;t afford to let it be known that the
crown prince was an Elantrian. Ten years ago, the Shaod would have
made Raoden a god. Now, instead of making people into
silver-skinned deities, it changed them into sickly
monstrosities.</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Raoden shook his head in
disbelief. The Shaod was a thing that happened to other
people--distant people. People who deserved to be cursed. Not the
crown prince of Arelon.&#160; Not Raoden.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The city of Elantris stretched
out before him. Its high walls were lined with guardhouses and
soldiers--men intended not to keep enemies out of the city, but to
keep its inhabitants from escaping. Since the Reod, every person
taken by the Shaod had been thrown into Elantris to rot--the fallen
city had become an expansive tomb for those whose bodies had
forgotten how to die.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Raoden could remember standing
on those walls, looking down on Elantris&#8217;s dread inhabitants,
just as the guards now regarded him. The city had seemed far away
then, even though he had been standing just outside of it. He had
wondered, philosophically, what it would be like to walk those
blackened streets.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Now he was going to find
out.</p>
<p class="MsoBodyText2"><span style=
'font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'>&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Raoden
pushed against the gate for a moment, as if to force his body
through, to cleanse his flesh of its taint. He lowered his head,
releasing a quiet moan.&#160; He felt like curling into a ball on
the grimy stones and waiting until he woke from this dream. Except,
he knew he would never awaken. The priests said this nightmare
would never end.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText2"><span style=
'font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'>&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But,
somewhere, something within urged him forward. He knew he had to
keep moving--for if he stopped, he feared he&#8217;d simply give
up. The Shaod had taken his body. He couldn&#8217;t let it take his
mind as well.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText2"><span style=
'font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'>&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;So,
using his pride like a shield against despair, dejection and--most
importantly--self-pity, Raoden raised his head to stare damnation
in the eyes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoBodyText2"><span style=
'font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'>&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Before,
when Raoden had stood on the walls of Elantris to look down--both
literally and figuratively--on its inhabitants, he had seen the
filth that covered the city.&#160; Now he stood in it.</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Every surface--from the walls
of the buildings to the numerous cracks in the cobblestones--was
coated with a patina of grime. The slick, oily substance had an
equalizing effect on Elantris&#8217;s colors, blending them all
into a single depressing hue--a color that mixed the pessimism of
black with the polluted greens and browns of sewage.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Before, Raoden had been able to
see a few of the city&#8217;s inhabitants. Now he could hear them
as well.&#160; A dozen or so Elantrians lay scattered across the
courtyard&#8217;s fetid cobblestones. Many sat uncaringly, or
unknowingly, in pools of dark water; the remains of the
night&#8217;s rainstorm. And they were moaning. Most of them were
quiet about it, mumbling to themselves or whimpering with some
unseen pain.&#160; One woman at the far end of the courtyard,
however, screamed with a sound of raw anguish. She fell silent
after a moment, her breath or her strength giving out.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Most of them wore what looked
like rags--dark loose-fitting garments that were as soiled as the
streets. Looking closely, however, Raoden recognized the clothing.
He glanced down at his own white burial cloths. They were long and
flowing, like ribbons sewn together into a loose robe. The linen on
his arms and legs was already stained with grime from brushing up
against the city gate and stone pillars.&#160; Raoden suspected
they would soon be indistinguishable from the other
Elantrians&#8217; garb.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>This is what I will
become</i>, Raoden thought. <i>It has already begun. In a few weeks
I will be nothing more than a dejected body, a corpse whimpering in
the corner.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A slight motion on the other
side of the courtyard brought Raoden out of his self pity. Some
Elantrians were crouching in a shadowed doorway across from him. He
couldn&#8217;t make out much from their silhouetted forms, but they
seemed to be waiting for something. He could feel their eyes on
him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Raoden raised an arm to shade
his eyes, and only then did he remember the small thatch basket in
his hands. It held the ritual Korathi sacrifice sent with the dead
into the next life--or, in this case, into Elantris. The basket
contained a loaf of bread, a few thin vegetables, a handful of
grain, and a small flask of wine. Normal death sacrifices were far
more extensive, but even a victim of the Shaod had to be given
something.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Raoden glanced up at the
figures in the doorway, his mind flashing to rumors he&#8217;d
heard on the outside--stories of Elantrian brutality. The shadowed
figures had yet to move, but their study of him was unnerving.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Taking a deep breath, Raoden
took a step to the side, moving along the city wall toward the east
side of the courtyard. The forms still seemed to be watching him,
but they didn&#8217;t follow. In a moment he could no longer see
through the doorway, and a second later he had safely passed into
one of the side streets.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Raoden released his breath,
feeling that he had escaped something, though he didn&#8217;t know
what.&#160; After a few moments, he was certain no one followed,
and he began to feel foolish for his alarm. So far, he had yet to
see anything that corroborated the rumors about Elantris. Raoden
shook his head and continued moving.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The stench was almost
overwhelming. The omnipresent sludge had a musty, rotten scent,
like that of dying fungus. Raoden was so bothered by the smell that
he nearly stepped directly on the gnarled form of an old man
huddled next to a building&#8217;s wall.&#160; The man moaned
piteously, reaching up with a thin arm. Raoden looked down, and
felt a sudden chill. The &#8216;old man&#8217; was no more than
sixteen years old. The creature&#8217;s soot-covered skin was dark
and spotted, but its face was that of a child, not a man. Raoden
took an involuntary step backward.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The boy, as if realizing his
chance would soon pass, stretched his arm forward with the sudden
strength of desperation. &#8220;Food?&#8221; he mumbled through a
mouth only half-full of teeth. &#8220;Please?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Then the arm fell, its
endurance expended, and the body slumped back against the cold
stone wall. His eyes, however, continued to watch Raoden.
Sorrowful, pained eyes. Raoden had seen beggars before in the Outer
Cites, and he had probably been fooled by charlatans a number of
times. This boy, however, was not faking.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Raoden reached up and pulled
the loaf of bread from his sacrificial offerings, then handed it to
the boy. The look of disbelief that ran across the boy&#8217;s face
was somehow more disturbing than the despair it had replaced. This
creature had given up hope long ago--he probably begged out of
habit rather than expectation.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Raoden left the boy behind,
turning to continue down the small street. He had hoped that the
city would grow less gruesome as he left the main
courtyard--thinking, perhaps, that the dirt was a result of the
area&#8217;s relatively frequent use. He had been wrong; the alley
was covered with just as much filth as the courtyard, if not
more.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A muffled thump sounded from
behind. Raoden turned with surprise. A group of dark forms stood
near the mouth of the side-street, huddled around an object on the
ground. The beggar. Raoden watched with a shiver as five men
devoured his loaf of bread, fighting amongst themselves and
ignoring the boy&#8217;s despairing cries.&#160; Eventually one of
the newcomers--obviously annoyed--brought a makeshift club down on
the boy&#8217;s head with a crunch that resounded through the small
alley.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The men finished the bread,
then turned to regard Raoden. He took an apprehensive step
backward--it appeared that he had been hasty in assuming he
hadn&#8217;t been followed. The five men stalked forward slowly,
and Raoden spun, taking off at a run.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Sounds of pursuit came from
behind. Raoden scrambled away in fear--something, as a prince, he
had never needed to do before. He ran madly, expecting his breath
to run short and a pain to stab him in the side, as usually
happened when he overextended himself. Neither occurred. Instead he
simply began to feel horribly tired, weak to the point that he knew
he would soon collapse. It was a harrowing feeling, as if his life
were slowly seeping away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Desperate, Raoden tossed the
sacrificial basket over his head. The awkward motion threw him
off-balance, and an unseen schism in the cobblestones sent him into
a maladroit skip that didn&#8217;t end until he collided with a
rotting mass of wood. The wood--which might once have been a pile
of crates--squished, breaking his fall.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Raoden sat up quickly, the
motion tossing shreds of wood pulp across the damp alleyway. His
assailants, however, were no longer concerned with him. The five
men crouched in the street&#8217;s muck, picking scattered
vegetables and grain off the cobblestones and out of the dark
pools. Raoden felt his stomach churn as one of the men slid his
finger down a crack--scraping up a dark handful that was more
sludge than corn--then rammed the entire mass between eager
lips.&#160; Brackish spittle dribbled down the man&#8217;s chin,
dropping from a mouth that resembled a mud-filled pot boiling on
the stove.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;One man saw Raoden watching.
The creature growled, reaching down to grab the almost-forgotten
cudgel at his side. Raoden searched frantically for a weapon,
finding a length of wood that was slightly less rotten than the
rest. He held the weapon in uncertain hands, trying to project an
air of danger.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The thug paused. A second
later, a cry of joy from behind drew his attention--one of the
others had located the tiny skin of wine. The struggle that ensued
apparently drove all thoughts of Raoden from the men&#8217;s minds,
and the five were soon gone--four chasing after the one who had
been fortunate, or foolish, enough to escape with the precious
liquor.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Raoden sat in the debris,
overwhelmed. <i>This is what you will become. . . .</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Looks like they forgot
about you, sule,&#8221; a voice observed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Raoden jumped, looking toward
the sound of the voice. A man, his smooth bald head reflecting the
morning light, reclined lazily on a set of steps a short distance
away. He was definitely an Elantrian, but before the transformation
he must have been of a different race--not from Arelon, like
Raoden. The man&#8217;s skin bore the tell-tail black splotches of
the Shaod, but the unaffected patches weren&#8217;t pale, but a
deep brown instead.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Raoden tensed against possible
danger, but this man showed no signs of the primal wildness or the
decrepit weakness Raoden had seen in the others. Tall and
firm-framed, the man had wide hands and keen eyes set in a
dark-skinned face. He studied Raoden with a thoughtful
attitude.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Raoden breathed a sigh of
relief. &#8220;Whoever you are, I&#8217;m glad to see you. I was
beginning to think everyone in here was either dying or
insane.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We can&#8217;t be
dying,&#8221; the man responded with a snort. &#8220;We&#8217;re
already dead. Kolo?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kolo. The foreign word was
vaguely familiar, as was the man&#8217;s strong accent.
&#8220;You&#8217;re not from Arelon?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man shook his head.
&#8220;I&#8217;m Galladon, from the sovereign realm of Duladel.
I&#8217;m most recently from Elantris, land of sludge, insanity,
and eternal perdition. Nice to meet you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Duladel?&#8221; Raoden
said. &#8220;But the Shaod only affects people from Arelon.&#8221;
He picked himself up, brushing away pieces of wood in various
stages of decomposition, grimacing at the pain in his stubbed toe.
He was covered with slime--the raw stench of Elantris now rose from
him as well.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Duladel is of mixed
blood, sule. Arelish, Fjordell, Teoish--you&#8217;ll find them all.
I--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Raoden cursed quietly,
interrupting the man.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Galladon raised an eyebrow.
&#8220;What is it, sule? Get a splinter in the wrong place? There
aren&#8217;t many <i>right</i> places for that, I
suppose.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s my
toe!&#8221; Raoden said, limping across the slippery cobblestones.
&#8220;There&#8217;s something wrong with it--I stubbed it when I
fell, but the pain isn&#8217;t going away.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Galladon shook his head
ruefully. &#8220;Welcome to Elantris, Sule. You&#8217;re dead--your
body won&#8217;t repair itself like it should.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221; Raoden
flopped to the ground next to Galladon&#8217;s steps. His toe
continued to hurt with a pain as sharp as the moment he stubbed
it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Every pain, sule,&#8221;
Galladon whispered. &#8220;Every cut, every nick, every bruise, and
every ache--they will stay with you until you go mad from the
suffering. As I said, welcome to Elantris.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;How do you stand
it?&#8221; Raoden asked, massaging his toe, an action that
didn&#8217;t help. It was such a silly little injury, but he had to
fight to keep the pained tears from his eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We don&#8217;t.
We&#8217;re either <i>very</i> careful, or we end up like those
rulos you saw in the courtyard.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;In the courtyard. . . .
Idos Domi!&#8221; Raoden pulled himself to his feet and hobbled
toward the courtyard. He found the beggar boy in the same location,
near the mouth of the alley. He was still alive . . . in a way.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The boy&#8217;s eyes stared
blankly into the air, the pupils quivering. His lips worked
silently, no sound escaping. The boy&#8217;s neck had been
completely crushed, and there was a massive gash in its side,
exposing the vertebrae and throat. The boy tried without success to
breathe through the mess.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Suddenly Raoden&#8217;s toe
didn&#8217;t seem so bad. &#8220;Idos Domi. . . .&#8221; Raoden
whispered, turning his head as his stomach lurched. He reached out
and grabbed the side of a building to steady himself, his head
bowed, as he tried to keep from adding to the sludge on the
cobblestones.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There isn&#8217;t much
left for this one,&#8221; Galladon said with a matter-of-fact tone,
crouching down next to the beggar.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;How. . . ?&#8221; Raoden
began, then stopped as his stomach threatened him again. He sat
down in the slime with a plop and, after a few deep breaths,
continued. &#8220;How long will he live like that?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You still don&#8217;t
understand, sule,&#8221; Galladon said, his accented voice
sorrowful. &#8220;He isn&#8217;t alive--none of us are.
That&#8217;s why we&#8217;re here. Kolo? The boy will stay like
this forever. That is, after all, the typical length of eternal
damnation.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Is there nothing we can
do?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Galladon shrugged. &#8220;We
could try burning him, assuming we could make a fire. Elantrian
bodies seem to burn better than those of regular people, and some
think that&#8217;s a fitting death for our kind.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And. . . .&#8221; Raoden
said, still unable to look at the boy. &#8220;And if we do that,
what happens to him--his soul?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He doesn&#8217;t have a
soul,&#8221; Galladon said. &#8220;Or so the priests tell us.
Korathi, Derethi, Jesker--they all say the same thing. We&#8217;re
damned.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That doesn&#8217;t
answer my question. Will the pain stop if he is burned?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Galladon looked down at the
boy. Then, eventually, he just shrugged. &#8220;Some say that if
you burn us, or cut off our head, or do anything that completely
destroys the body, we&#8217;ll just stop existing. Others, they say
the pain goes on--that we <i>become</i> pain. They think we&#8217;d
float thoughtlessly, unable to feel anything but agony. I
don&#8217;t like either option, so I just try to keep myself in one
piece. Kolo?&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; Raoden
whispered. &#8220;I Kolo.&#8221; He turned, finally getting the
courage to look back at the wounded boy. The enormous gash stared
back at him. Blood seeped slowly from the wound--as if the liquid
were just sitting in the veins, like stagnant water in a
pool.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;With a sudden chill Raoden
reached up and felt his chest. &#8220;I don&#8217;t have a
heartbeat,&#8221; he realized for the first time.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Galladon looked at Raoden as if
he had made an utterly idiotic statement. &#8220;Sule, you&#8217;re
<i>dead</i>. Kolo?&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText" align="center" style='text-align:center'>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'>
#</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They didn&#8217;t burn the boy.
Not only did they lack the proper implements to make fire, but
Galladon forbade it. &#8220;We can&#8217;t make a decision like
that. What if he really has no soul? What if he stopped existing
when we burned his body? To many, an existence of agony is better
than no existence at all.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;So, they left the boy where he
had fallen--Galladon doing so without a second thought, Raoden
following because he couldn&#8217;t think of anything else to do,
though he felt the pain of guilt more sharply than even the pain in
his toe.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Galladon obviously didn&#8217;t
care whether Raoden followed him, went in another direction, or
stood staring at an interesting spot of grime on the wall. The
large, dark-skinned man walked back the way they had come, passing
the occasional moaning body in a gutter, his back turned toward
Raoden with a posture of complete indifference.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Watching the Dula go, Raoden
tried to gather his thoughts. He had been trained for a life in
politics; years of preparation had conditioned him to make quick
decisions. He made one just then--he decided to trust
Galladon.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;There was something innately
likable about the Dula, something Raoden found indefinably
appealing, even if it was covered by a grime of pessimism as thick
as the slime on the ground. It was more than Galladon&#8217;s
lucidity, more than just his leisurely attitude. Raoden had seen
the man&#8217;s eyes when he regarded the suffering child. Galladon
claimed to accept the inevitable, but he felt sad that he had to do
so.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The Dula found his former perch
on the steps and settled back down. Taking a determined breath,
Raoden walked over and stood expectantly in front of the
man.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Galladon glanced up.
&#8220;What?&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I need your help,
Galladon,&#8221; Raoden said, squatting on the ground in front of
the steps.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Galladon snorted. &#8220;This
is Elantris, sule. There&#8217;s no such thing as help. Pain,
insanity, and a whole lot of slime are the only things you&#8217;ll
find here.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You almost sound like
you believe that.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You are asking in the
wrong place, sule.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;re the only
non-comatose person I&#8217;ve met in here who hasn&#8217;t
attacked me,&#8221; Raoden said. &#8220;Your actions speak much
more convincingly than your words.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Perhaps I simply
haven&#8217;t tried to hurt you because I know you don&#8217;t have
anything to take.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t believe
that.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Galladon shrugged an &#8216;I
don&#8217;t care what you believe&#8217; shrug and turned away,
leaning back against the side of the building and closing his
eyes.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Are you hungry,
Galladon?&#8221; Raoden asked quietly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man&#8217;s eyes snapped
open.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I used to wonder when
King Iadon fed the Elantrians,&#8221; Raoden mused. &#8220;I never
heard of any supplies entering the city, but I always assumed that
they were sent. &#8216;After all,&#8217; I thought, &#8216;the
Elantrians stay alive.&#8217; I never understood. If the people of
this city can exist without heartbeats, then they can probably
exist without food. Of course, that doesn&#8217;t mean the hunger
goes away. I was ravenous when I awoke this morning, and I still
am. From the looks in the eyes of those men who attacked me,
I&#8217;d guess the hunger only gets worse.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Raoden reached under his
grime-stained sacrificial robe, pulling out a thin object and
holding it up for Galladon to see. A piece of dried meat.
Galladon&#8217;s eyes opened all the way, his face changing from
bored to interested. There was a glint in his eyes--a bit of the
same wildness that Raoden had seen in the savage men earlier.
&#160;It was more controlled, but it was there.&#160;&#160; For the
first time Raoden realized just how much he was gambling on his
first impression of the Dula.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Where did that come
from?&#8221; Galladon asked slowly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It fell out of my basket
when the priests were leading me here, so I stuffed it under my
sash. Do you want it or not?&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Galladon didn&#8217;t answer
for a moment.&#160; &#8220;What makes you think I won&#8217;t
simply attack you and take it?&#8221; The words were not
hypothetical--Raoden could tell that a part of Galladon was
actually considering such an action. How large a part was still
indeterminable.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You called me
&#8216;sule,&#8217; Galladon. How could you kill one you&#8217;ve
dubbed a friend?&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Galladon sat, transfixed by the
tiny piece of meat. A thin drop of spittle ran unnoticed from the
side of his mouth. He looked up at Raoden, who was growing
increasingly anxious. When their eyes met, something sparked in
Galladon, and the tension snapped. The Dula suddenly bellowed a
deep, resounding laugh. &#8220;You speak Duladen,
sule?&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Only a few words,&#8221;
Raoden said modestly.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;An educated man? Rich
offerings for Elantris today! All right, you conniving rulo, what
do you want?&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Thirty days,&#8221;
Raoden said. &#8220;For thirty days you will show me around and
tell me what you know.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Thirty days? Sule,
you&#8217;re kayana.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The way I see it,&#8221;
Raoden said, moving to tuck the meat back in his sash, &#8220;the
only food that ever enters this place arrives with the newcomers.
One must get pretty hungry with so few offerings and so many mouths
to feed. One would think the hunger would be almost
maddening.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Twenty days,&#8221;
Galladon said, a hint of his former intensity showing
again.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Thirty, Galladon. If you
won&#8217;t help me, someone else will.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Galladon ground his teeth for a
moment.&#160; &#8220;Rulo,&#8221; he muttered, then held out his
hand. &#8220;Thirty days. Fortunately, I wasn&#8217;t planning any
extended trips during the next month.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Raoden tossed him the meat with
a laugh.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Galladon snatched the meat.
Then, though his hand jerked reflexively toward his mouth, he
stopped. With a careful motion he tucked the meat into a pocket and
stood up. &#8220;So, what should I call you?&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Raoden paused. <i>Probably best
if people don&#8217;t know I&#8217;m royalty, for now</i>.
&#8220;Sule works just fine for me.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Galladon chuckled. &#8220;The
private type, I see. Well, let&#8217;s go then. It&#8217;s time for
you to get the grand tour.&#8221;</span></p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h2><span style='font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'>Chapter
Two</span></h2>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Sarene stepped off of the ship
to discover that she was a widow. It was shocking news, of course,
but not as devastating as it could have been. After all, she had
never met her husband. &#160;In fact, when Sarene had left her
homeland, she and Raoden had only been engaged. She had assumed
that the kingdom of Arelon would wait to hold the wedding until she
actually arrived. Where she came from, at least, it was expected
that both partners would be present when they were married.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I never liked that
clause in the wedding contract, my lady,&#8221; said Sarene&#8217;s
companion--a melon-sized ball of light hovering at her side.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Sarene tapped her foot in
annoyance as she watched the packmen load her luggage onto a
carriage. The wedding contract had been a fifty-page beast of a
document, and one of its many stipulations made her betrothal
legally binding if either she or her fianc&#233; died before the
actual wedding ceremony.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s fairly common
clause, Ashe,&#8221; she said. &#8220;That way, the treaty of a
political marriage isn&#8217;t voided if something happens to one
of the participants. I&#8217;ve never seen it invoked.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Until today,&#8221; the
ball of light replied, its voice deep words and
well-enunciated.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Until today,&#8221;
Sarene admitted. &#8220;How was I to know Prince Raoden
wouldn&#8217;t last the five days it took us to cross the Sea of
Fjorden?&#8221; She paused, frowning in thought. &#8220;Quote the
clause to me, Ashe. I need to know exactly what it says.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;&#8216;If it happens
that one member of the aforementioned couple is called home to
Merciful Domi before the prearranged wedding time,&#8217;&#8221;
Ashe said, &#8220;&#8216;then the engagement will be considered
equivalent to marriage in all legal and social
respects.&#8217;&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Not much room for
argument, is there?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Afraid not, my
lady.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Sarene frowned distractedly,
folding her arms and tapping her cheek with her index finger,
watching the packmen. A tall, gaunt man directed the work with
bored eyes and a resigned expression. The man, an Arelish court
attendant named Ketol, was the only reception King Iadon had seen
fit to send her. Ketol had been the one to &#8216;regretfully
inform her that her fianc&#233; had died of an unexpected disease
during her journey.&#8217; He had made the declaration with the
same dull, uninterested tone that he used to command the
packmen.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So,&#8221; Sarene
clarified, &#8220;as far as the law is concerned, I&#8217;m now a
princess of Arelon.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That is correct, my
lady.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And the widowed bride of
a man I never met.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Again,
correct.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Sarene shook her head.&#160;
&#8220;Father is going to laugh himself sick when he hears about
this. I&#8217;ll never live it down.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Ashe pulsed slightly in
annoyance. &#8220;My lady, the king would never take such a solemn
event with levity. The death of Prince Raoden has undoubtedly
brought great grief to the sovereign family of Arelon.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes. So much grief, in
fact, that they couldn&#8217;t even spare the effort it would take
to come meet their new daughter.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Perhaps, my lady,&#8221;
Ashe noted, &#8220;King Iadon would have come himself if he&#8217;d
had had more warning of our arrival. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Sarene frowned, but the Seon
had a point. Her early arrival, several days ahead of the main
wedding party, had been intended as a pre-wedding surprise for
Prince Raoden. She&#8217;d wanted a few days, at least, to spend
time with him privately and in person.&#160; Her secrecy, however,
had worked against her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Tell me, Ashe,&#8221;
she said. &#8220;How long do Arelish people customarily wait
between a person&#8217;s death and their burial?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m not sure, my
lady,&#8221; Ashe confessed. &#8220;I left Arelon long ago, and I
lived here for such a short time that I can&#8217;t remember many
specifics. However, my studies tell me that Arelish customs are
generally similar to those of your homeland.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Sarene nodded, then waved over
King Iadon&#8217;s attendant.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, my lady?&#8221;
Ketol asked in a lazy tone.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Is a funeral wake being
held for the prince?&#8221; Sarene asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, my lady,&#8221; the
attendant replied. &#8220;Outside the Korathi chapel. The burial
will happen this evening.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I want to go see the
casket.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Ketol paused. &#8220;Uh. . .his
majesty asked that you be brought to him immediately. . .
.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Then I won&#8217;t spend
long at the funeral tent,&#8221; Sarene said, walking toward her
carriage.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Sarene surveyed the busy
funeral tent with a critical eye, waiting as Ketol and a few of the
packmen cleared a way for her to approach the casket. She had to
admit, everything was irreproachable--the flowers, the offerings,
the praying Korathi priests. The only oddity about the event was
how crowded the tent was.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There certainly are a
lot of people here,&#8221; she noted to Ashe.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The prince was very
well-liked, my lady,&#8221; the Seon replied, floating beside her.
&#8220;According to our reports, he was the most popular public
figure in the country.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Sarene nodded, walking down the
passageway Ketol had made for her. Prince Raoden&#8217;s casket sat
at the very center of the tent, guarded by a ring of soldiers who
only let the masses approach so far. As she walked, she sensed true
grief in the faces of those in attendance.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>So it is true</i>, she
thought. <i>The people did love him.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The soldiers made way for her,
and she approached the casket. It was carved with Aons--most of
them symbols of hope and peace--after the Korathi way. The entire
wooden casket was surrounded by a ring of lavish foods--an offering
made on behalf of the deceased.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Can I see him?&#8221;
she asked, turning toward one of the Korathi priests--a small,
kindly-looking man.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m sorry,
child,&#8221; the priest said. &#8220;But the prince&#8217;s
disease was unpleasantly disfiguring. The king has asked that the
prince be allowed dignity in death.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Sarene nodded, turning back to
the casket. She wasn&#8217;t sure what she had expected to feel,
standing before the dead man she would have married. She was oddly.
. .angry.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She pushed that emotion away
for the moment, instead turning to look around the tent. It almost
seemed <i>too</i> formal. Though the visiting people were obviously
grieved, there tent, the offerings, and the decorations seemed
sterile.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>A man of Raoden&#8217;s age
and supposed vigor</i>, she thought. <i>Dead of the coughing
shivers. It could happen--but it certainly doesn&#8217;t seem
likely.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My. . .lady?&#8221; Ashe
said quietly. &#8220;Is something wrong?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Sarene waved to the Seon and
walked back toward their carriage. &#8220;I don&#8217;t
know,&#8221; she said quietly.&#160; &#8220;Something just
doesn&#8217;t feel right here, Ashe.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You have a suspicious
nature, my lady,&#8221; Ashe pointed out.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why isn&#8217;t Iadon
having a vigil for his son? Ketol said he was holding court, as if
his own son&#8217;s death didn&#8217;t even bother him.&#8221;
Sarene shook her head. &#8220;I spoke with Raoden just before I
left Teod, and he seemed fine. Something is wrong, Ashe, and I want
to know what it is.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, dear . . .&#8221;
Ashe said. &#8220;You know, my lady, your father <i>did</i> ask me
to try and keep you out of trouble.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Sarene smiled. &#8220;Now
there&#8217;s an impossible task. Come on, we need to go meet my
new father.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoBodyText2"><span style=
'font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'>&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Sarene
leaned against the carriage window, watching the city pass as she
rode toward the palace. She sat in silence for the moment, a single
thought crowding everything else out of her mind.</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>What am I doing
here?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her words to Ashe had been
confident, but she had always been good at hiding her worries.
True, she was curious about the prince&#8217;s death, but Sarene
knew herself very well. A large part of that curiosity was an
attempt to take her mind off of her feelings of inferiority and
awkwardness--anything to keep from acknowledging what she was: a
lanky, brusque woman who was almost past her prime. She was
twenty-five years old; she should have been married years ago.
Raoden had been her last chance.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>How dare you die on me,
prince of Arelon!</i> Sarene thought indignantly. Yet, the irony
did not escape her. It was fitting that this man, one she had
thought she might actually grow to like, would die before she even
got to meet him. Now she was alone in an unfamiliar country,
politically bound to a king she did not trust.&#160; It was a
daunting, lonely feeling.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You&#8217;ve been lonely
before, Sarene,</i> she reminded herself. <i>You&#8217;ll get
through it. Just find something to occupy your mind. You have an
entire new court to explore. Enjoy it.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;With a sigh, Sarene turned her
attention back to the city. Despite considerable experience serving
in her father&#8217;s diplomatic corps, she had never visited
Arelon. Ever since the fall of Elantris, Arelon had been
unofficially quarantined by most other kingdoms--no one knew why
the mystical city had been cursed, and everyone worried that the
Elantrian disease might spread.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Sarene was surprised, however,
by the lushness she saw in Kae. The city thoroughfares were wide
and well-maintained. The people on the street were well-dressed,
and she didn&#8217;t see a single beggar. To one side, a group of
blue-robed Korathi priests walked quietly through the crowd,
leading an odd, white-robed person. She watched the procession,
wondering what it could be, until the group disappeared around a
corner.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;From her vantage, Kae reflected
none of the economic hardship Arelon was supposed to be
suffering.&#160; The carriage passed dozens of fenced-in mansions,
each one built in a different style of architecture. Some were
expansive, with large wings and pointed roofs, following Duladen
construction. Others were more like castles, their stone walls
looking as if they had been directly transported from the
militaristic countryside of Fjorden. The mansions all shared one
thing, however--wealth. The people of this country might be
starving, but Kae--seat of Arelon&#8217;s aristocracy--didn&#8217;t
appear to have noticed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Of course, one disturbing
shadow still hung over the city. The enormous wall of Elantris rose
in the distance, and Sarene shivered as she glanced at its stark
imposing stones. She had heard stories about Elantris for most of
her adult life, tales of the magics it had once produced, and the
monstrosities that now inhabited its dark streets. No matter how
gaudy the houses, no matter how wealthy the streets, this one
monument stood as a testament that all was not well in Arelon.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why do they even live
here, I wonder?&#8221; Sarene asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My lady?&#8221; Ashe
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why did King Iadon build
his palace in Kae? Why choose a city that is so close to
Elantris?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I suspect the reasons
are primarily economic, my lady,&#8221; Ashe said. &#8220;There are
only a couple of viable ports on the northern Arelish coast, and
this is the finest.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Sarene nodded--the bay formed
by the merging of the Aredel River with the ocean made for an
enviable harbor. But even still. . . .</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Perhaps the reasons are
political,&#8221; Sarene mused. &#8220;Iadon took power during
turbulent times--maybe he thinks that remaining close to the old
capital will lend him authority.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Perhaps, my lady,&#8221;
Ashe said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>It&#8217;s not like it
really matters that much,</i> she thought. Apparently, proximity to
Elantris--or Elantrians--didn&#8217;t actually increase one&#8217;s
chances of being taken by the Shaod.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She turned away from the
window, looking over at Ashe, who hovered above the seat beside
her. She had yet to see a Seon in the streets of Kae, though the
creatures--said to be the ancient creations of Elantris magic--were
supposed to be even more common in Arelon than in her homeland. If
she squinted, she could barely make out the glowing Aon at the
center of Ashe&#8217;s light.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;At least the treaty is
safe,&#8221; Sarene finally said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Assuming you remain in
Arelon, my lady,&#8221; Ashe said in his deep voice, &#8220;at
least, that is what the wedding contract says. As long as you stay
here, and &#8216;remain faithful to your husband,&#8217; King Iadon
must honor his alliance with Teod.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Remain faithful to a
dead man,&#8221; Sarene mumbled with a sigh. &#8220;Well, that
means I have to stay, husband or no husband.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;If you say so, my
lady.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We need this treaty,
Ashe,&#8221; Sarene said. &#8220;Fjorden is expanding its influence
at an incredible rate. Five years ago I would have said we
didn&#8217;t need to worry, that Fjorden&#8217;s priests would
never be a power in Arelon. But now. . . .&#8221; Sarene shook her
head. The collapse of the Duladen Republic had changed so much.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We shouldn&#8217;t have
kept ourselves so removed from Arelon these last ten years,
Ashe,&#8221; she said. &#8220;I probably wouldn&#8217;t be in this
predicament if we had forged strong ties with the new Arelish
government ten years ago.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your father was afraid
their political turmoil would infect Teod,&#8221; Ashe said.
&#8220;Not to mention the Reod--no one was certain that whatever
struck the Elantrians wouldn&#8217;t affect normal people as
well.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The carriage slowed, and Sarene
sighed, letting the topic drop. Her father knew Fjorden was a
danger, and he understood that old allegiances needed to be
reforged--that was why she was in Arelon. Ahead of them, the palace
gates swung open. Friendless or not, she had arrived, and Teod was
depending on her. She had to prepare Arelon for the war that was
coming--a war that had become inevitable the moment Elantris
fell.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Sarene&#8217;s new father, King
Iadon of Arelon, was a thin man with a shrewd face. He was
conferring with several of his administrators when Sarene entered
the throne room, and she stood unnoticed for nearly fifteen minutes
before he even nodded to her.&#160; Personally, she didn&#8217;t
mind the wait--it gave her a chance to observe the man she was now
sworn to obey--but her dignity couldn&#8217;t help being a little
offended by the treatment. Her station as a princess of Teod alone
should have earned her a reception that was, if not grand, at least
punctual.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;As she waited, one thing struck
her immediately. Iadon did not look like a man mourning the passing
of his son and heir. There were no signs of grief in his eyes, none
of the haggard fatigue that generally accompanied the passing of a
loved one. In fact, the air of the court itself seemed remarkably
free of mourning signs.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Is Iadon a heartless man,
then?</i> Sarene wondered curiously. <i>Or is he simply one who
knows how to control his emotions?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Years spent in her
father&#8217;s court had taught Sarene to be a connoisseur of noble
character.&#160; Though she couldn&#8217;t hear what Iadon was
saying--she had been told to stay near the back of the room and
wait for permission to approach--the king&#8217;s actions and
mannerisms gave her an idea of his character. Iadon spoke firmly,
giving direct instruction, occasionally pausing to stab his
table-map with a thin finger. He was a man with a strong
personality, she decided--one with a definite idea of how he wanted
things done. It wasn&#8217;t a bad sign.&#160; Tentatively, Sarene
decided that this was a man with whom she might be able to
work.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She was to revise that opinion
shortly.</p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;King Iadon waved her over. She
carefully hid her annoyance at the wait, and approached him with
the proper air of noble submission. He interrupted her halfway
through her curtsy.</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No one told me you would
be so tall,&#8221; he declared.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My lord?&#8221; she
said, looking up.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, I guess the only
one who would have cared about that isn&#8217;t around to see it.
Eshen!&#8221; he snapped, causing an almost unseen woman near the
far side of the room to jump in compliance.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Take this one to her
rooms and see that she has plenty of things to keep her occupied.
Embroidery or whatever else it is that entertains you women.&#8221;
With that, the king turned to his next appointment--a group of
merchants.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Sarene stood mid-curtsy,
stunned at Iadon&#8217;s complete lack of courtesy. Only years of
courtly training kept her jaw from dropping. Quick but unassertive,
the woman Iadon had ordered--<i>Queen</i> Eshen, the king&#8217;s
wife--scuttled over and took Sarene&#8217;s arm. Eshen was short
and slight of frame, her brownish-blonde Aonic hair only beginning
to streak with gray.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Come, child,&#8221;
Eshen said in a high-pitched voice. &#8220;We mustn&#8217;t waste
the king&#8217;s time.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoBodyText2"><span style=
'font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'>&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Sarene
allowed herself to be pulled through one of the room&#8217;s side
doors. &#8220;Merciful Domi,&#8221; she muttered to herself.
&#8220;What have I gotten myself into?&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;. . . and you&#8217;ll
love it when the roses come in. I have the gardeners plant them so
you can smell them without even leaning out the window. I wish they
weren&#8217;t so big, though.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Sarene frowned in confusion.
&#8220;The roses?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No, dear,&#8221; the
queen continued, barely pausing, &#8220;the windows. You
can&#8217;t believe how bright the sun is when it shines through
them in the morning. I asked them--the gardeners, that is--to find
me some orange ones, because I <i>so</i> adore orange, but so far
all they found were some ghastly yellow ones. &#8216;If I wanted
yellow,&#8217; I said to them, &#8216;I would have had you plant
Aberteens.&#8217; You should have seen them apologize--I&#8217;m
sure we&#8217;ll have some orange ones by the end of next year.
Don&#8217;t you think that would be lovely, dear? Of course, the
windows will still be too big. Maybe I can have a couple of them
bricked off.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Sarene nodded, fascinated--not
by the conversation, but by the queen. Sarene had assumed that the
lecturers at her father&#8217;s Academy had been skilled at saying
nothing with lots of words, but Eshen put them all to shame. The
queen flitted from one topic to the next like a butterfly looking
for a place to land, but never finding one suitable enough for an
extended stay. Any one of the topics would have been potential fuel
for an interesting conversation, but the queen never let Sarene
grab hold of one long enough to do it justice.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Sarene took a calming breath,
telling herself to be patient. She couldn&#8217;t blame the queen
for being the way she was--Domi taught that all people&#8217;s
personalities were gifts to be enjoyed. The queen was charming, in
her own meandering way. Unfortunately, after meeting both king and
queen, Sarene was beginning to suspect that she would have trouble
finding political allies in Arelon.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Something else bothered
Sarene--something odd about the way Eshen acted. No one could
<i>possibly</i> talk as much as the queen did; she never let a
silent moment pass. It was almost like the woman was uncomfortable
around Sarene. Then, in a moment of realization, Sarene understood
what it was. Eshen spoke on every imaginable topic except for the
one most important--the departed prince. Sarene&#8217;s narrowed
her eyes with suspicion. She couldn&#8217;t be certain--Eshen was,
after all, a very flighty person--but it seemed that the Queen was
acting far too cheerful for a woman who had just lost her son.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Here is your room, dear.
We unpacked your things, and added some as well. You have clothing
in every color, even yellow, though I can&#8217;t imagine why you
would want to wear it. Horrid color. Not that your hair is horrid,
of course. Blonde isn&#8217;t the same as yellow, no. No more than
a horse is a vegetable. We don&#8217;t have a horse for you yet,
but you are welcome to use any in the king&#8217;s stables. We have
lots of fine animals, you see, Duladel is beautiful this time of
year.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course,&#8221; Sarene
said, looking over the room. It was small, but suited her tastes.
Too much space could be as daunting as too little could be
cramped.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Now, you&#8217;ll be
needing these, dear,&#8221; Eshen said, pointing a small hand at a
pile of clothing that wasn&#8217;t hanging like the rest--as if it
had been delivered more recently. All of the dresses in the pile
shared a single attribute.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Black?&#8221; Sarene
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course. You&#8217;re
. . . you&#8217;re in . . .&#8221; Eshen fumbled with the
words.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m in
mourning,&#8221; Sarene realized. She tapped her foot with
dissatisfaction--black was <i>not</i> one of her favorite
colors.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Eshen nodded. &#8220;You can
wear one of those to the funeral this evening. It should be a nice
service--I did the arrangements.&#8221; She began talking about her
favorite flowers again, and the monologue soon degenerated into a
discourse on how much she hated Fjordell cooking. Gently, but
firmly, Sarene led the woman to the door, nodding pleasantly. As
soon as they reached the hallway, Sarene pled fatigue from her
travels, and plugged the queen&#8217;s verbal torrent by closing of
the door.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s going to
get old <i>very</i> quickly,&#8221; Sarene said to herself.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The queen does have a
robust gift for conversation, my lady,&#8221; a deep voice
agreed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What did you find
out?&#8221; Sarene asked, walking over to pick through the pile of
dark clothing as Ashe floated in through the open window.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I didn&#8217;t find as
many Seons as I had expected. I seem to recall that this city was
once overflowing with us.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I noticed that
too,&#8221; Sarene said, holding up a dress in front of the mirror,
then discarding it with a shake of her head. &#8220;I guess things
are different now.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They are indeed. As per
your instructions, I asked the other Seons what they knew of the
prince&#8217;s untimely death. Unfortunately, my lady, they were
hesitant to discuss the event--they consider it extremely
ill-omened for the prince to die so soon before he was to be
married.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Especially for
him,&#8221; Sarene mumbled, pulling off her clothing to try on the
dress. &#8220;Ashe, something strange is going on. I think maybe
someone killed the prince.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Killed, my lady?&#8221;
Ashe&#8217;s deep voice was disapproving, and he pulsed slightly at
the comment.&#160; &#8220;Who would do such a thing?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t know, but.
. .something feels odd about the prince&#8217;s death. This
doesn&#8217;t seem like a court that is in mourning. Take the
queen, for instance. She didn&#8217;t appear distraught when she
spoke to me--you&#8217;d think she would be at least a little
bothered by the fact that her son died yesterday.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There is a simple
explanation for that, my lady. Queen Eshen is not Prince
Raoden&#8217;s mother.&#160; Raoden was born of Iadon&#8217;s first
wife, who died over twelve years ago.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;When did he
re-marry?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Right after the
Reod,&#8221; Ashe said. &#8220;Just a few months after he took the
throne.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Sarene frowned.
&#8220;I&#8217;m still suspicious,&#8221; she decided, reaching
around awkwardly to button the back of her dress. Then she regarded
herself in the mirror, looking at the dress critically.&#160;
&#8220;Well, at least it fits--even if it does make me look pale. I
was half afraid it would cut off at my knees. These Arelish women
are all so unnaturally short.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;If you say so, my
lady,&#8221; Ashe replied.&#160; He knew as well as she did that
Arelish women weren&#8217;t that short--even in Teod, Sarene had
been a head taller than most of the other women. Her father had
called her Leky-stick as a child--borrowing the name of the tall
thin post that marked the goal line in his favorite sport. Even
after filling out during adolescence, Sarene was still undeniably
lanky.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My lady,&#8221; Ashe
said, interrupting her contemplations.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,
Ashe?&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your father is desperate
to talk to you. I think you have some news he deserves to
hear.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Sarene nodded, holding in a
sigh, and Ashe began to pulse brightly. A moment later the ball of
light that formed his essence melted into a bust-like glowing head.
King Eventeo of Teod.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;&#8217;Ene?&#8221; her
father asked, the glowing head&#8217;s lips moving. He was a robust
man, with a large oval face and a thick chin.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, father. I&#8217;m
here.&#8221; Her father would be standing beside a similar
Seon--probably Dio--who would have changed to resemble a glowing
approximation of Sarene&#8217;s head.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Are you nervous for the
wedding?&#8221; Eventeo asked anxiously.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, about that
wedding. . . .&#8221; she said slowly. &#8220;You&#8217;ll probably
want to cancel your plans to come next week.&#160; There
won&#8217;t be much for you to see.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Ashe had been right--her father
didn&#8217;t laugh when he heard Raoden was dead. Instead, his
voice turned to one of sharp concern, the glowing face worried. His
worry increased when Sarene explained how the death was as binding
as an actual wedding.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, &#8216;Ene,
I&#8217;m sorry,&#8221; her father said.&#160; &#8220;I know how
much you were expecting from this marriage.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Nonsense, father.&#8221;
Eventeo knew her far too well. &#8220;I hadn&#8217;t even met the
man--how could I have had any expectations?&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You hadn&#8217;t met
him,&#8221; said her father&#8217;s soothing voice, &#8220;but you
had spoken with him through Seon, and you had written all those
letters. &#160;I know you, &#8216;Ene--you&#8217;re a romantic. You
would never have decided to go through with this if you
hadn&#8217;t thoroughly convinced yourself that you could love
Raoden.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The words rang true, and
suddenly Sarene&#8217;s loneliness returned. She had spent the trip
across the Sea of Fjorden in a state of disbelieving nervousness,
both excited and apprehensive at the prospect of meeting the man
who was to become her husband. More excited, however, than
apprehensive.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She had been away from Teod
many times, but she had always gone with others from her homeland.
This time she had come by herself, traveling ahead of the rest of
the wedding party to surprise Raoden. She had read and reread the
prince&#8217;s letters so many times that she had begun to feel she
knew him, and the person she&#8217;d constructed from those sheets
of paper was a complex, compassionate man that she had been very
anxious to meet.</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And now she never would. She
felt more than alone, she felt rejected--again. Unwanted. She had
waited all these years, suffered by a patient father who
didn&#8217;t know how the men of her homeland avoided her, how they
were frightened by her forward, even arrogant, personality.
Finally, she had found a man who was willing to have her, and Domi
had snatched him away at the last moment.</p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Sarene finally began to let
herself feel some of the emotions she had been keeping in a tight
noose since stepping off the ship. She was glad the Seon only
transferred her features, for she would have been mortified if her
father had seen the tear rolling down her cheek.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That&#8217;s silly,
father,&#8221; she said. &#8220;This was a simple political
marriage, and we all knew it. Now our countries have more in common
than just language--our royal lines are related.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, honey . . .&#8221;
her father whispered.&#160; &#8220;My little Sarene. I had so hoped
this would work out--you don&#8217;t know how your mother and I
prayed that you would find happiness there. Idos Domi! We
shouldn&#8217;t have gone through with this.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I would have made you,
father,&#8221; Sarene said. &#8220;We need the treaty with Arelon
far too badly. Our armada won&#8217;t keep Fjorden off our shores
for much longer--the entire Svordish navy is under Wyrn&#8217;s
command.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Little Sarene, all grown
up now,&#8221; her father said through the Seon link.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;All grown up and fully
capable of marrying herself off to a corpse.&#8221; Sarene laughed
weakly. &#8220;It&#8217;s probably for the best. I don&#8217;t
think Prince Raoden would have turned out as I had imagined--you
should meet his father.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;ve heard
stories. I hoped they weren&#8217;t true.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, they are,&#8221;
Sarene said, letting her dissatisfaction with the Arelish monarch
burn away her sorrow. &#8220;King Iadon has to be just about the
most disagreeable man I have ever met. He barely even acknowledged
me before sending me off to, as he put it, &#8216;go knit, and
whatever else you women do.&#8217; If Raoden was anything like his
father, then I&#8217;m better off this way.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;There was a momentary pause
before her father responded. &#8220;Sarene, do you want to come
home? I can void the contract if I want, no matter what the laws
say.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The offer was tempting--more
tempting than she would ever admit. She paused. &#8220;No,
father,&#8221; she finally said with an unconscious shake of her
head. &#8220;I have to stay. This was my idea, and Raoden&#8217;s
death doesn&#8217;t change the fact that we need this alliance.
Besides, returning home would break tradition--we both know that
Iadon is my father now. It would be unseemly for you to take me
back into your household.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I will always be your
father, &#8216;Ene.&#160; Domi curse the customs--Teod will always
be open for you.&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Thank you father,&#8221;
Sarene said quietly. &#8220;I needed to hear that.&#160; But I
still think I should stay. For now, at least. Besides, it could be
interesting. I have an entirely new court full of people to play
with.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;&#8217;Ene. . . .&#8221;
her father said apprehensively.&#160; &#8220;I know that tone. What
are you planning?&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Nothing,&#8221; she
said. &#8220;There&#8217;s just a few things I want to poke my nose
into before I give up completely on this
marriage.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;There was a pause, then her
father chuckled. &#8220;Domi protect them--they don&#8217;t know
what we&#8217;ve shipped over there.&#160; Go easy on them,
Leky-stick. I don&#8217;t want to get a note from Minister Naolen
in a month telling me that King Iadon has run off to join a Korathi
monastery and the Arelish people have named you monarch
instead.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;All right,&#8221; Sarene
said with a wan smile. &#8220;I&#8217;ll wait at least two months
then.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her father burst into another
round of his characteristic laughter--a sound that did her more
good than any of his consolations or counsels. &#8220;Wait for a
minute, &#8216;Ene,&#8221; he said after his laughter subsided.
&#8220;Let me get your mother--she&#8217;ll want to speak with
you.&#8221;&#160; Then, after a moment, he chuckled, continuing,
&#8220;She&#8217;s going to faint dead away when I tell her
you&#8217;ve already killed off poor Raoden.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Father!&#8221; Sarene
said--but he was already gone.</span></p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h2>Chapter Three</h2>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;None of Arelon&#8217;s people
greeted their savior when he arrived. It was an affront, of course,
but not an unexpected one. The people of Arelon--especially those
living near the infamous city of Elantris--were known for their
godless, even heretical, ways.&#160; Hrathen had come to change
that. He had three months to convert the entire kingdom of Arelon,
otherwise Holy Jaddeth--Lord of all creation--would destroy it. The
time had finally come for Arelon to accept the truths of the
Derethi religion.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hrathen strode down the
gangplank. Beyond the docks, with its continuous bustle of loading
and unloading, stretched the city of Kae. A short distance beyond
Kae, Hrathen could see a towering stone wall--the old city of
Elantris. On the other side of Kae, to Hrathen&#8217;s left, the
land sloped steeply, rising to a tall hill--a foothill of what
would become the Dathreki Mountains. Behind him was the ocean.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Overall, Hrathen was not
impressed.&#160; In ages past, four small cities had surrounded
Elantris, but only Kae--the new capitol of Arelon--was still
inhabited. Kae was too unorganized, too spread out, to be
defensible, and its only fortification appeared to be a small,
five-foot high wall of stones--more a border than anything
else.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Retreat into Elantris would be
difficult, and only marginally effective. Kae&#8217;s buildings
would provide wonderful cover for an invading force, and a few of
Kae&#8217;s more peripheral structures looked like they were built
almost against Elantris&#8217;s wall. This was not a nation
accustomed to war. Yet, of all the kingdoms on the Syclan
continent--the land named &#8216;Opelon&#8217; by the Arelish
people--only Arelon itself had avoided domination by the Fjordell
Empire. Of course, that too was something Hrathen would soon
change.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hrathen marched away from the
ship, his presence causing quite a stir among the people. Workers
halted their labors as he passed, staring at him with impressed
amazement.&#160; Conversations died when eyes fell upon him.
Hrathen didn&#8217;t slow for anyone, but that didn&#8217;t matter,
for people moved quickly from his path. It could have been his
eyes, but, more likely, it was his armor. Blood red and glittering
in the sunlight, the plate armor of a Derethi imperial high priest
was an imposing sight even when one was accustomed to it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He was beginning to think he
would have to find his own way to the city&#8217;s Derethi chapel
when he made out a spot of red weaving its way through the crowd.
The speck soon resolved into a stumpy balding figure clad in red
Derethi robes. &#8220;My Lord Hrathen!&#8221; the man called.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hrathen stopped, allowing
Fjon--Kae&#8217;s Derethi head arteth--to approach. Fjon puffed and
wiped his brow with a silken handkerchief. &#8220;I&#8217;m
terribly sorry, your grace. The register had you scheduled to come
in on a different ship. I didn&#8217;t find out you weren&#8217;t
on board until they were halfway done unloading. I&#8217;m afraid I
had to leave the carriage behind; I couldn&#8217;t get it through
the crowd.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hrathen&#8217;s narrowed his
eyes with displeasure, but he said nothing. Fjon continued to
blather for a moment before finally deciding to lead Hrathen to the
Derethi chapel, apologizing again for the lack of transportation.
Hrathen followed his pudgy guide with a measured stride,
dissatisfied. Fjon trotted along with a smile on his lips,
occasionally waving to passers on the streets, shouting
pleasantries. The people responded in kind--at least, until they
saw Hrathen, his blood cloak billowing behind him and his
exaggerated armor cut with sharp angles and harsh lines. Then they
fell silent, greetings withering, their eyes following Hrathen
until he passed. Such was as it should be.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The chapel was a tall stone
structure, complete with bright red tapestries and towering
spires.&#160; Here, at least, Hrathen found some of the majesty he
was accustomed to.&#160; Within, however, he was confronted by a
disturbing sight--a crowd of people involved in some kind of social
activity. People milled around, ignoring the holy structure in
which they stood, laughing and joking. It was too much.&#160;
Hrathen had heard, and believed, the reports. Now he had
confirmation.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Arteth Fjon, assemble
your priests,&#8221; Hrathen said--the first words he had spoken
since his arrival on Arelish soil.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The arteth jumped, as if
surprised to finally hear sounds coming from his distinguished
guest. &#8220;Yes, my lord,&#8221; he said, motioning for the
gathering to end.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It took a frustratingly long
time, but Hrathen endured the process with a flat expression. When
the people had left, he approached the priests, his armored feet
clicking against the chapel&#8217;s stone floor. When he finally
spoke, his words were directed at Fjon.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Arteth,&#8221; he said,
using the man&#8217;s Derethi title, &#8220;the ship that brought
me here will leave for Fjorden in one hour. You are to be on
board.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Fjon&#8217;s jaw dropped in
alarm. &#8220;Wha--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Speak Fjordell,
man!&#8221; Hrathen snapped. &#8220;Surely ten years amongst the
Arelish heathens hasn&#8217;t corrupted you to the point that you
have forgotten your native tongue?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No, no, your
grace,&#8221; Fjon replied, switching from Aonic to Fjordell.
&#8220;But I--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Enough,&#8221; Hrathen
interrupted again. &#8220;I have orders from Wyrn himself. You have
spent far too long in the Arelish culture--you have forgotten your
holy calling, and are unable to see to the progress of
Jaddeth&#8217;s Empire. These people don&#8217;t need a friend;
they need a priest. A Derethi priest. One would think you were
Korathi, watching you fraternize. We&#8217;re not here to love the
people; we are here to help them. You will go.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Fjon slumped back against one
of the room&#8217;s pillars, his eyes widening and his limbs losing
their strength. &#8220;But who will be head arteth of the chapel in
my absence, my lord?&#160; The other arteths are so
inexperienced.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;These are pivotal times,
Arteth,&#8221; Hrathen said. &#8220;I&#8217;ll be remaining in
Arelon to personally direct the work here. May Jaddeth grant me
success.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He had hoped for an
office with a better view, but the chapel, majestic as it was, held
no second floor. Fortunately, the grounds were well-kept, and his
office--Fjon&#8217;s old room--overlooked nicely trimmed hedges and
carefully-arranged flower beds.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Now that he had cleared the
walls of paintings--agrarian nature scenes, for the most part--and
thrown out Fjon&#8217;s numerous personal effects, the chamber was
approaching a level of dignified orderliness appropriate for a
Derethi gyorn. All it needed was a few tapestries and maybe a
shield or two.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Nodding to himself, Hrathen
turned his attention back to the scroll on his desk. His orders. He
barely dared hold them in his profane hands. He read the words over
and over again in his mind, imprinting both their physical form and
their theological meaning on his soul.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My lord. . .your
grace?&#8221; a quiet voice asked in Fjordell.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hrathen looked up.&#160;
Fjon&#8217;s entered the room, then crouched in a subservient
huddle on the floor, his forehead rubbing the ground. Hrathen
allowed himself to smile, knowing the penitent arteth
couldn&#8217;t see his face. Perhaps there was hope for Fjon
yet.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Speak,&#8221; Hrathen
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I have done wrong, my
lord. I have acted contrary to the plans of our Lord
Jaddeth.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your sin was
complacency, Arteth. Contentment has destroyed more nations than
any army, and it has claimed the souls of more men than even
Elantris&#8217;s heresies.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, my lord.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You still must leave,
Arteth,&#8221; Hrathen said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man&#8217;s shoulders
slumped slightly. &#8220;Is there no hope for me then, my
lord?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That is Arelish
foolishness speaking, Arteth, not Fjordell pride.&#8221; Hrathen
reached down, grasping the man&#8217;s shoulder. &#8220;Rise, my
brother!&#8221; he commanded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Fjon looked up, hope returning
to his eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your mind may have
become tainted with Arelish thoughts, but your soul is still
Fjordell. You are of Jaddeth&#8217;s chosen people--all of the
Fjordell have a place of service in His Empire. Return to our
homeland, join a monastery to reacquaint yourself with those things
you have forgotten, and you will be given another way to serve the
Empire.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, my lord.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hrathen&#8217;s grip grew hard.
&#8220;Understand this before you leave, Arteth. My arrival is more
of a blessing than you can possibly understand. All of
Jaddeth&#8217;s workings are not open to you; do not think to
second-guess our God.&#8221; He paused, debating his next move.
After a moment he decided--this man still had worth. Hrathen had a
unique chance to reverse much of Arelon&#8217;s perversion of
Fjon&#8217;s soul in a single stroke. &#8220;Look there on the
table, Arteth. Read that scroll.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Fjon looked toward the desk,
eyes finding the scroll resting thereon. Hrathen released the
man&#8217;s shoulder, allowing him to walk around the desk and
read.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;This is the official
seal of Wyrn himself!&#8221; Fjon said, picking up the scroll.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Not just the seal,
Arteth,&#8221; Hrathen said. &#8220;That is his signature as well.
The document you hold was penned by his Holiness himself. That
isn&#8217;t just a letter--it is scripture.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Fjon&#8217;s eyes opened wide,
and his fingers began to quiver. &#8220;Wyrn himself?&#8221; Then,
realizing in full what he was holding in his unworthy hand, he
dropped the parchment to the desk with a quiet yelp. His eyes
didn&#8217;t turn away from the letter, however.&#160; They were
transfixed--reading the words as voraciously as a starving man
devoured a joint of beef. Few people actually had an opportunity to
read words written by the hand of Jaddeth&#8217;s prophet and Holy
Emperor.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hrathen gave the priest time to
read the scroll, then re-read it, and then read it again. When Fjon
finally looked up, there was understanding--and gratitude--in his
face. The man was intelligent enough. He knew what the orders would
have required of him, had he remained in charge of Kae.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Thank you,&#8221; Fjon
mumbled.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hrathen nodded graciously.
&#8220;Could you have done it? Could you have followed Wyrn&#8217;s
commands?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Fjon shook his head, eyes
darting back to the parchment. &#8220;No, your Grace. I could not
have. . .I couldn&#8217;t have functioned--couldn&#8217;t have even
thought--with that on my conscience. I do not envy your place, my
lord. Not anymore.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Return to Fjorden with
my blessing, brother,&#8221; Hrathen said, taking a small envelope
from a bag on the table. &#8220;Give this to the priests there. It
is a letter from me telling them you accepted your reassignment
with the grace befitting a servant of Jaddeth.&#160; They will see
that you are assigned to a monastery. Perhaps someday you will be
allowed to lead a chapel again--one well within Fjorden&#8217;s
borders.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, my lord. Thank you,
my lord.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Fjon withdrew, closing the door
behind him. Hrathen walked to his desk and slid another
envelope--identical to the one he had given Fjon--from his letter
bag. He held it for a few moments, then turned it to one of the
desk&#8217;s candles. The words it held--condemning Arteth Fjon as
a traitor and an apostate--would never be read, and the poor,
pleasant arteth would never know just how much danger he had been
in.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;With your leave, my Lord
Gyorn,&#8221; said the bowing priest, a minor dorven who had served
under Fjon for over a decade. Hrathen waved his hand, bidding the
man to leave. The door shut silently as the priest backed from the
room.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Fjon had done some serious
damage to his underlings. Even a small weakness would build
enormous flaws over two decades&#8217; time, and Fjon&#8217;s
problems were anything but &#8216;small.&#8217;&#160; The man had
been lenient to the point of flagrancy--he had run a chapel without
order, bowing before Arelish culture rather than bringing the
people strength and discipline. &#160;Half of the priests serving
in Kae were hopelessly corrupted--including men as new to the city
as six months. Within the next few weeks, Hrathen would be sending
a veritable fleet of priests back to Fjorden.&#160; He&#8217;d have
to pick a new head arteth from those who remained, few though they
were.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A knock came at the door.
&#8220;Come,&#8221; Hrathen said. He had been seeing the priests
one at a time, feeling out the extent of their contamination. So
far, he had not often been impressed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Arteth Dilaf,&#8221; the
priest said, introducing himself as he entered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hrathen looked up--the name and
words were Fjordell, but the accent was slightly off. It sounded
almost . . . &#8220;You&#8217;re Arelish?&#8221; Hrathen said with
surprise.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The priest bowed with the
proper amount of subservience--his eyes, however, were defiant.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;How did you become a
priest of Derethi?&#8221; Hrathen asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I wanted to serve the
Empire,&#8221; the man replied, his voice quietly intense.
&#8220;Jaddeth provided a way.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>No,</i> Hrathen realized.
<i>It isn&#8217;t defiance in this man&#8217;s eyes--it&#8217;s
religious fervor.</i> One did not often find zealots in the Derethi
religion--such people were more often drawn to the frenzied
lawlessness of the Jeskeri Mysteries than the militaristic
organization of Shu-Dereth. This man&#8217;s face, however, burned
with fanatical passion. It was not a bad thing--while Hrathen
himself spurned such lack of control, he had often found zealots to
be useful tools.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Jaddeth always provides
a way, Arteth,&#8221; Hrathen said carefully. &#8220;Be more
specific.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I met a Derethi arteth
in Duladel twelve years ago. He preached to me, and I believed. He
gave me copies of the <i>Do-Keseg</i> and the <i>Do-Dereth</i>, and
I read them both in one night.&#160; The holy arteth sent me back
to Arelon to help convert those in my home country, and I set up in
Rain. I taught there for seven years, until the day I heard that a
Derethi chapel had been built in Kae itself. I overcame my loathing
for the Elantrians, knowing that Holy Jaddeth had struck them down
with an eternal punishment, and came to join with my Fjordell
brethren.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I brought my converts
with me--fully half of the believers in Kae came with me from Rain.
Fjon was impressed with my diligence. He granted me the title of
arteth and allowed me to continue teaching.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hrathen rubbed his chin
thoughtfully, regarding the Arelish priest. &#8220;You know what
Arteth Fjon did was wrong.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, my lord. An arteth
cannot appoint another to his own position. When I speak to the
people, I never refer to myself as a priest of Derethi, only a
teacher.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>A very good teacher</i>,
Dilaf&#8217;s tone implied. &#8220;What did you think of Arteth
Fjon?&#8221; Hrathen asked.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He was an undisciplined
fool, my lord.&#160; His laxness kept Jaddeth&#8217;s kingdom from
growing in Arelon, and has made a mockery of our
religion.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hrathen smiled--Dilaf, though
not of the chosen race, was obviously a man who understood the
doctrine and culture of his religion. However, his ardor could be
dangerous. The wild intensity in Dilaf&#8217;s eyes was barely
under control--either he would have to be watched very closely, or
he would have to be disposed of.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It appears that Arteth
Fjon did one thing right, even if he didn&#8217;t have the proper
authority,&#8221; Hrathen said.&#160; Dilaf&#8217;s eyes burned
even more brightly at the declaration. &#8220;I make you a full
arteth, Dilaf.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dilaf bowed touching his head
to the ground. His mannerisms were perfectly Fjordell, and Hrathen
had never heard a foreigner speak the Holy Tongue so well. This man
could prove useful indeed--after all, one common complaint against
Shu-Dereth was that it favored the Fjordell. An Arelish priest
could help prove that all were welcome within Jaddeth&#8217;s
Empire--even if the Fjordell were the most welcome.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hrathen congratulated himself
on creating such a useful tool, completely satisfied until the
moment Dilaf looked up from his bow. The passion was still there in
Fjon&#8217;s eyes--but there was something else as well. Ambition.
Hrathen frowned slightly, wondering whether or not he had just been
manipulated.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;There was only one thing to
do.&#160; &#8220;Arteth, are you sworn as any man&#8217;s
odiv?&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Surprise. Dilaf&#8217;s eyes
opened wide as he stared up at Hrathen, uncertainty flashing
therein. &#8220;No, my lord.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Good. Then I will make
you mine.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My lord . . . I am, of
course, your humble servant.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You will be more than
that, Arteth,&#8221; Hrathen said, &#8220;if you would be my odiv,
I your hroden. You will be mine, heart and soul. If you follow
Jaddeth, you follow him <i>through me</i>. If you serve Wyrn, you
do it under me. Whatever you think, act, or say will be by my
direction. Am I understood?&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Fire burned in Dilaf&#8217;s
eyes. &#8220;Yes,&#8221; he hissed. The man&#8217;s fervor
wouldn&#8217;t let him reject such an offer. Though his lowly rank
of arteth would remain unchanged, being odiv to a gyorn would
enormously increase Dilaf&#8217;s power and respectability. He
<i>would</i> be Hrathen&#8217;s slave, if that slavery would carry
him higher. It was a very Fjordell thing to do--ambition was the
one emotion Jaddeth would accept as readily as devotion.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Good,&#8221; Hrathen
said. &#8220;Then your first order is to follow the priest Fjon. He
should be getting on the ship to Fjordell right at this moment--I
want you to make sure he does so. If Fjon gets off for any reason,
kill him.&#8221;</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, my gyorn.&#8221;
Dilaf rushed from the room. He finally had an outlet for his
enthusiasm--all Hrathen had to do now was keep that enthusiasm
focused in the right direction.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hrathen stood for a moment
after the Arelish man had gone, then shook his head and turned back
to his desk. The scroll still lay where it had fallen from
Fjon&#8217;s unworthy fingers; Hrathen picked it up with a smile,
his touch reverent. He was not a man who delighted in
possessions--Hrathen set his sights on much grander accomplishments
than the simple accumulation of useless baubles. However,
occasionally an object came along that was so unique, Hrathen
reveled in simply knowing it belonged to him. One did not own such
a thing for its usefulness, or for its ability to impress others,
but because it was a privilege to possess. The scroll was such an
object.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It had been scribed in front of
Hrathen by Wyrn&#8217;s own hand. It was revelation directly from
Jaddeth; scripture intended for only one man. Few people ever got
to meet Jaddeth&#8217;s anointed, and even amongst the gyorns,
private audiences were rare. To receive orders directly from
Wyrn&#8217;s hand. . .such was the most exquisite of
experiences.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hrathen ran his eyes over the
sacred words again, even though he had long since memorized their
every detail.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Behold the words of Jaddeth,
through his servant Wyrn Wulfden the Fourth, Emperor and
king.</i></span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>High Priest and Son, your
request has been granted. Go to the heathen peoples of the west and
declare to them my final warning, for while my Empire is eternal,
my patience will soon end. Not much longer will I slumber within a
tomb of rock. The Day of Empire is at hand, and my glory will soon
shine forth, a second sun blazing forth from
Fjorden.</i></span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>The pagan nations of Arelon
and Teod have been blackened scars upon my land for long enough.
Three hundred years have my priests served amongst those tainted by
Elantris, and few have harkened to their call. Know this, High
Priest, my faithful warriors are prepared and they wait only the
word of my Wyrn. You have three months to prophesy to the people of
Arelon. At the end of that time, the holy soldiers of Fjorden will
descend on the nation like hunting predators, rending and tearing
the unworthy life from those who heed not my words. Only three
months will pass before the destruction of all who oppose my
Empire.</i></span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>The time for my ascension
nears, my son. Be stalwart, and be diligent.</i></span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Words of Jaddeth, Lord of
all Creation, through his servant Wyrn Wulfden the fourth, Emperor
of Fjordell, Prophet of Shu-Dereth, Ruler of Jaddeth&#8217;s Holy
kingdom, and Regent of all Creation.</i></span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The time had finally come--only
two nations resisted. Fjorden had regained its former glory, glory
lost hundreds of years ago when the First Empire collapsed. Once
again, Arelon and Teod were the only two kingdoms who resisted
Fjordell rule. This time, with the might of Jaddeth&#8217;s holy
calling behind it, Fjorden would prevail. Then, with all mankind
united under Wyrn&#8217;s rule, Jaddeth could rise from his throne
beneath the earth and reign in glorious majesty.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And Hrathen would be the one
responsible for it. The conversion of Arelon and Teod was his
urgent duty. He had three months to change the religious
temperament of an entire culture; it was a monumental task, but it
was vital that he succeed. If he did not, Fjorden&#8217;s armies
would destroy every living being in Arelon, and Teod would soon
follow--the two nations, though separated by water, were the same
in race, religion, and obstinance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The people might not yet know
it, but Hrathen was the only thing standing between them and utter
annihilation. They had resisted Jaddeth and his people in arrogant
defiance for far too long--Hrathen was their last
chance.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Someday they would call him
their savior.</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<span style=
'font-size:14.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<h1>Sample Chapters of Mistborn</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal">&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>Book One: The Final
Empire</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>(Originally published
in 2006, this is the first of my epic fantasy trilogy. The
paperback was out in July of 2007, and Book Two was released in
August, 2007. Book three is due October 2008.&#160; Warbreaker is
next in line after it, scheduled for 2009.)</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Sometimes, I worry that
I&#8217;m not the hero everyone thinks I am. . . .</i></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The philosophers assure me that
this is the time, that the signs have been met. But I still wonder
if they have the wrong man. So many people depend on me. They say I
will hold the future of the entire world on my arms.</span></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;What would they think if they
knew that their champion--the Hero of Ages, their savior--doubted
himself? Perhaps they wouldn&#8217;t be shocked at all. In a way,
this is what worries me most. Maybe, in their hearts, they
wonder--just as I do.</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>When they see me, do they
see a liar?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h2>Prologue</h2>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Ash fell from the sky.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Lord Tresting frowned, glancing
up at the ruddy, mid-day sky as his servants scuttled forward,
opening a parasol over Tresting and his distinguished guest.
Ashfalls weren&#8217;t that uncommon in the Final Empire, but
Tresting had hoped to avoid getting soot stains on his fine new
suit coat and red vest, which had just arrived via canal boat from
Luthadel itself. Fortunately, there wasn&#8217;t much wind--the
parasol would likely be effective.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tresting stood with his guest
on a small hilltop patio which overlooked the fields. Hundreds of
people in brown smocks worked in the falling ash, caring for the
crops. There was a sluggishness to their efforts--but, of course,
that was the way of the skaa.&#160; The peasants were an indolent,
unproductive lot. The didn&#8217;t complain, of course--they knew
better than that. Instead, they simply worked with bowed heads,
moving about their work with quiet apathy. The passing whip of a
taskmaster would force them into dedicated motion for a few
moments, but as soon as the taskmaster passed, they would return to
their languor.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tresting turned to the man
standing beside him on the hill. &#8220;One would think,&#8221;
Tresting noted, &#8220;that a thousand years of working in fields
would have bred them to be a little more effective at
it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The obligator turned, raising
an eyebrow--the motion done as if to highlight his most distinctive
feature, the intricate tattoos that laced the skin around his eyes.
The tattoos were enormous, reaching all the way across his brow and
up the sides of his nose. &#160;This was a full prelan--a very
important obligator indeed. Tresting had his own, personal
obligators back at the manor, but they were only minor
functionaries, with barely a few marks around their eyes. This man
had arrived from Luthadel with the same canal boat that had brought
Tresting&#8217;s new suit.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You should see city
skaa, Tresting,&#8221; the obligator said, turning back to watch
the skaa workers.&#160; &#8220;These are actually quite diligent,
compared to those inside Luthadel. You have more. . .direct control
over your skaa here. How many would you say you lose a
month?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, a half-dozen or
so,&#8221; Tresting said. &#8220;Some to beatings, some to
exhaustion.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Runaways?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Never!&#8221; Tresting
said. &#8220;When I first inherited this land from my title, I had
a few runaways--but I executed their families. The rest quickly
lost heart. I&#8217;ve never understood men who have trouble with
their skaa--I find the creatures easy to control, if you show a
properly firm hand.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The obligator nodded, standing
quietly in his gray robes. He seemed pleased--which was a good
thing. The skaa weren&#8217;t actually Tresting&#8217;s property.
Like all skaa, they belonged to the Lord Ruler--Tresting only
leased the workers from his God, much in the same way he paid for
the services of His obligators.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The obligator looked down,
checking his pocket watch, then glanced up at the sun. Despite the
ashfall, the sun was bright this day, shining a brilliant crimson
red behind the smoky blackness of the upper sky. Tresting removed a
handkerchief and wiped his brow, thankful for the parasol&#8217;s
shade against the mid-day heat.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Very well,
Tresting,&#8221; the obligator said. &#8220;I will carry your
proposal to Lord Venture, as requested. He will have a favorable
report from me on your operations here.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tresting held in a sigh of
relief. An obligator was required to witness any contract or
business deal between noblemen. True, even a lowly obligator like
the ones Tresting employed could serve as such a witness--but it
meant so much more to impress Straff Venture&#8217;s own
obligator.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The obligator turned toward
him. &#8220;I will leave back down the canal this
afternoon.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So soon?&#8221; Tresting
asked. &#8220;Wouldn&#8217;t you care to stay for
supper?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; the obligator
replied. &#8220;Though there is another matter I wish to discuss
with you. I came not only at the behest of Lord Venture, but to. .
.look in on some matters for the Canton of Inquisition. Rumors say
that you like to dally with your skaa women.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tresting felt a chill.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The obligator smiled--he likely
meant it to be disarming, but Tresting only found it eerie.&#160;
&#8220;Don&#8217;t worry yourself, Tresting,&#8221; the obligator
said. &#8220;If there had been any <i>real</i> worries about your
actions, a Steel Inquisitor would have been sent here in my
place.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tresting nodded slowly.
Inquisitor. He&#8217;d never seen one of the inhuman creatures, but
he had heard. . .stories.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I have been satisfied
regarding your actions with the skaa women,&#8221; the obligator
said, looking back over the fields. &#8220;What I&#8217;ve seen and
heard here indicates that you always clean up your messes. A man
such as yourself--efficient, productive--could go far in Luthadel.
A few more years of work, some inspired mercantile deals, and who
knows?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The obligator turned away, and
Tresting found himself smiling. It wasn&#8217;t a promise, or even
an endorsement--for the most part, obligators were more bureaucrats
and witnesses than they were priests--but to hear such praise from
one of the Lord Ruler&#8217;s own servants. . . . Tresting knew
that some nobility considered the obligators to be unsettling--some
men even considered them a bother--but at that moment, Testing
could have kissed his distinguished guest.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tresting turned back toward the
skaa, who worked quietly beneath the bloody sun and the lazy flakes
of ash. Tresting had always been a country nobleman, living on his
plantation, dreaming of perhaps moving into Luthadel itself. He had
heard of the balls and the parties, the glamour and the intrigue,
and it excited him to no end.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I&#8217;ll have to celebrate
tonight,</i> he thought. There was that young girl in the
fourteenth hovel that he&#8217;d been watching for some time. . .
.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He smiled again. A few more
years of work, the obligator had said. But, could Tresting perhaps
speed that up, if he worked a little harder? His skaa population
had been growing lately. Perhaps if he pushed them a bit more, he
could bring in an extra harvest this summer, fulfill his contract
with Lord Venture in extra measure.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tresting nodded as he watched
the crowd of lazy skaa, some working with their hoes, others on
hands and knees, pushing the ash away from the fledgling crops.
They didn&#8217;t complain. They didn&#8217;t hope. They barely
dared think. That was the way it should be, for they were skaa.
They were--</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tresting froze as one of the
skaa looked up. The man met Tresting&#8217;s eyes, a spark--no, a
fire--of defiance showing in his expression. Tresting had never
seen anything like it, not in the face of a skaa. Tresting stepped
backward reflexively, a chill running through him as the strange,
straight-backed skaa held his eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And smiled.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tresting looked away.&#160;
&#8220;Kurdon!&#8221; he snapped.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The burly taskmaster rushed up
the incline. &#8220;Yes, my lord?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tresting turned, pointing at. .
. .</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He frowned. Where had that skaa
been standing? Working with their heads bowed, bodies stained by
soot and sweat, they were so hard to tell apart. Tresting paused,
searching. He thought he knew the place. . .an empty spot, where
nobody now stood.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But, no. That couldn&#8217;t be
it. The man couldn&#8217;t have disappeared from the group so
quickly. Where would he have gone? He must be in there, somewhere,
working with his head now properly bowed. Still, his moment of
apparent defiance was inexcusable.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My lord?&#8221; Kurdon
asked again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The obligator stood at the
side, watching curiously. It would not be wise to let the man know
that one of the skaa had acted so brazenly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Work the skaa in that
southern section a little harder,&#8221; Tresting ordered,
pointing. &#8220;I see them being sluggish, even for skaa. Beat a
few of them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kurdon shrugged, but nodded. It
wasn&#8217;t much of a reason for a beating--but, then, he
didn&#8217;t need much of a reason to give the workers a
beating.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;They were, after all, only
skaa.&#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier had heard stories.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He had heard whispers of times
when once, long ago, the sun had not been red. Times when the sky
hadn&#8217;t been clogged by smoke and ash, when plants
hadn&#8217;t struggled to grow and when skaa hadn&#8217;t been
slaves. Times before the Lord Ruler. Those days, however, were
nearly forgotten. Even the legends were growing vague.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier watched the sun, his
eyes following the giant red disk as it crept toward the western
horizon. He stood quietly for a long moment, alone in the empty
fields. The day&#8217;s work was done; the skaa had been herded
back to their hovels. Soon the mists would come.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Eventually, Kelsier sighed,
then turned to pick his way across the furrows and pathways,
weaving between large heaps of ash. He avoided stepping on the
plants--though he wasn&#8217;t sure why he bothered. The crops
hardly seemed worth the effort. Wan, with wilted brown leaves, the
plants seemed as depressed as the people who tended them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The skaa hovels loomed in the
waning light. Already, Kelsier could see the mists beginning to
form, clouding the air and giving the mound-like buildings a
surreal, intangible look. The hovels stood unguarded--there was no
need for watchers, for no skaa would venture outside once night
arrived. Their fear of the mists was far too strong.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I&#8217;ll have to cure them
of that someday,</i> Kelsier thought as he approached one of the
larger buildings. <i>But, all things in their own time.</i> He
pulled open the door and slipped inside.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Conversation stopped
immediately. Kelsier closed the door, then turned with a smile to
confront the room of about thirty skaa. A firepit burned weakly at
the center, and the large cauldron beside it was filled with
vegetable-dappled water--the beginnings of an evening meal. The
soup would be bland, of course. Still, the smell was enticing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Good evening,
everyone,&#8221; Kelsier said with a smile, resting his pack beside
his feet and leaning against the door. &#8220;How was your
day?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;His words broke the silence,
and the women returned to their dinner preparations. A group of men
sitting at a crude table, however, continued to regard Kelsier with
dissatisfied expressions.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Our day was filled with
work, traveler,&#8221; said Tepper, one of the skaa elders.
&#8220;Something you managed to avoid.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Fieldwork hasn&#8217;t
ever really suited me,&#8221; Kelsier said. &#8220;It&#8217;s far
too hard on my delicate skin.&#8221; He smiled, holding up hands
and arms that were lined with layers and layers of thin scars. They
covered his skin, running lengthwise, like some beast had
repeatedly raked its claws up and down his arms.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tepper snorted. He was young to
be an elder, probably barely into his forties--at most, he might be
five years Kelsier&#8217;s senior. However, the scrawny man held
himself with the air of one who liked to be in charge.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;This is no time for
levity,&#8221; Tepper said sternly. &#8220;When we harbor a
traveler, we expect him to behave himself and avoid suspicion. When
you ducked away from the fields this morning, you could have earned
a whipping for the men around you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;True,&#8221; Kelsier
said.&#160; &#8220;But those men could also have been whipped for
standing in the wrong place, for pausing too long, or for coughing
when a taskmaster walked by. I once saw a man beaten because his
master claimed that he had &#8216;blinked
inappropriately.&#8217;&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tepper sat with narrow eyes and
a stiff posture, his arm resting on the table. His expression was
unyielding.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier sighed, rolling his
eyes. &#8220;Fine. If you want me to go, I&#8217;ll be off
then.&#8221; He slung his pack up on his shoulder and nonchalantly
pulled open the door.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Thick mist immediately began to
pour through the portal, drifting lazily across Kelsier&#8217;s
body, pooling on the floor and creeping across the dirt like a
hesitant animal.&#160; Several people gasped in horror, though most
of them were too stunned to make a sound. Kelsier stood for a
moment, staring out into the dark mists, their shifting currents
lit feebly by the cooking pit&#8217;s coals.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Close the
door.&#8221;&#160; Tepper&#8217;s words were a plea, not a
command.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier did as requested,
pushing the door closed and stemming the flood of white mist.
&#8220;The mist is not what you think. You fear it far too
much.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Men who venture into the
mist lose their souls,&#8221; a woman whispered. Her words raised a
question.&#160; Had Kelsier walked in the mists? What, then, had
happened to his soul?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>If you only knew</i>,
Kelsier thought. &#8220;Well, I guess this means I&#8217;m
staying.&#8221; He waved for a boy to bring him a stool.
&#8220;It&#8217;s a good thing, too--it would have been a shame for
me to leave before I shared my news.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;More than one person perked up
at the comment. This was the real reason they tolerated him--the
reason why even the timid peasants would harbor a man such as
Kelsier, a skaa who defied the Lord Ruler&#8217;s will by traveling
from plantation to plantation. A renegade he may be--a danger to
the entire community--but he brought news from the outside
world.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I come from the
north,&#8221; Kelsier said. &#8220;From lands where the Lord
Ruler&#8217;s touch is less noticeable.&#8221; He spoke in a clear
voice, and people leaned unconsciously toward him as they worked.
On the next day, Kelsier&#8217;s words would be repeated to the
several hundred people who lived in other hovels. The skaa might be
subservient, but they were incurable gossips.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Local lords rule in the
west,&#8221; Kelsier said, &#8220;and they are far from the iron
grip of the Lord Ruler and his obligators. Some of these distant
noblemen are finding that happy skaa make better workers than
mistreated skaa. One man, Lord Renoux, has even ordered his
taskmasters to stop unauthorized beatings. There are whispers that
he&#8217;s considering paying wages to his plantation skaa, like
city craftsmen might earn.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Nonsense,&#8221; Tepper
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My apologies,&#8221;
Kelsier said. &#8220;I didn&#8217;t realize that Goodman Tepper had
been to Lord Renoux&#8217;s estates recently. When you dined with
him last, did he tell you something that he did not tell
me?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tepper blushed--skaa did not
travel, and they certainly didn&#8217;t dine with lords. &#8220;You
think me a fool, traveler,&#8221; Tepper said, &#8220;but I know
what you&#8217;re doing. You&#8217;re the one they call the
Survivor; those scars on your arms give you away. You&#8217;re a
troublemaker--you travel the plantations, stirring up discontent.
You eat our food, telling your grand stories and your lies, then
you disappear and leave people like me to deal with the false hopes
you give our children.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier raised an eyebrow.
&#8220;Now, now, Goodman Tepper,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Your
worries are completely unfounded. Why, I have no intention of
eating your food. I brought my own.&#8221;&#160; With that, Kelsier
reached over and tossed his pack onto the earth before
Tepper&#8217;s table. The loose bag slumped to the side, dumping an
array of foods to the ground. Fine breads, fruits, and even a few
thick, cured sausages bounced free.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A summerfruit rolled across the
packed earthen floor and bumped lightly against Tepper&#8217;s
foot. The middle-aged skaa regarded the fruit with stunned eyes.
&#8220;That&#8217;s nobleman&#8217;s food!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier snorted.&#160;
&#8220;Barely. You know, for a man of renowned prestige and rank,
your Lord Tresting has remarkably poor taste. His pantry is an
embarrassment to his noble station.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tepper paled even further.
&#8220;That&#8217;s where you went this afternoon,&#8221; he
whispered. &#8220;You went to the manor. You. . .<i>stole from the
master!</i>&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Indeed,&#8221; Kelsier
said. &#8220;And, might I add that while your lord&#8217;s taste in
foods is deplorable, his eye for soldiers is far more impressive.
Sneaking into his manor during the day was quite a
challenge.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tepper was still staring at the
bag of food. &#8220;If the taskmasters find this here. . .
.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, I suggest you make
it disappear then,&#8221; Kelsier said. &#8220;I&#8217;d be willing
to bet that it tastes a fare bit better than watered-down farlet
soup.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Two dozen sets of hungry eyes
studied the food. If Tepper intended further arguments, he
didn&#8217;t make them quickly enough, for his silent pause was
taken as agreement. Within a few minutes, the bag&#8217;s contents
had been inspected and distributed, and the pot of soup sat
bubbling and ignored as the skaa feasted on a meal far more
exotic.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier settled back, leaning
against the hovel&#8217;s wooden wall and watching the people
devour their food. He had spoken correctly--the pantry&#8217;s
offerings had been depressingly mundane. However, this was a people
who had been fed on nothing but soup and gruel since they were
children. To them, breads and fruits were rare delicacies--usually
eaten only as aging discards brought down by the house
servants.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your storytelling was
cut short, young man,&#8221; an elderly skaa noted, hobbling over
to sit on a stool beside Kelsier.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, I suspect there will
time for more later,&#8221; Kelsier said. &#8220;Once all evidence
of my thievery has been properly devoured. Don&#8217;t you want any
of it?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No need,&#8221; the old
man said. &#8220;The last time I tried lords&#8217; food, I had
stomach pains for three days.&#160; New tastes are like new ideas,
young man--the older you get, the more difficult they are for you
to stomach.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier paused. The old man was
hardly an imposing sight. His leathered skin and bald scalp made
him look more frail than it did wise. Yet, he had to be stronger
than he looked--few plantation skaa lived to such ages. Many lords
didn&#8217;t allow the elderly to remain home from daily work, and
the frequent beatings that made up a skaa&#8217;s life took a
terrible toll on the elderly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What was your name
again?&#8221; Kelsier asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Mennis.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier glanced back at Tepper.
&#8220;So, Goodman Mennis, tell me something. Why do you let him
lead?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Mennis shrugged. &#8220;When
you get to be my age, you have to be very careful where you waste
your energy.&#160; Some battles just aren&#8217;t worth
fighting.&#8221; There was an implication in Mennis&#8217; eyes--he
was referring to things greater than his own struggle with
Tepper.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;re satisfied
with this, then?&#8221; Kelsier asked, nodding toward the hovel and
its half-starved, overworked occupants. &#8220;You&#8217;re content
with a life full of beatings and endless drudgery?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;At least it&#8217;s a
life,&#8221; Mennis said. &#8220;I know what wages malcontent and
rebellion bring. &#160;The eye of the Lord Ruler, and the ire of
the Steel Ministry, can be far more terrible than a few whippings.
Men like you preach change, but I wonder. Is this a battle we can
really fight?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;re fighting it
already, Goodman Mennis. You&#8217;re just losing horribly.&#8221;
Kelsier shrugged.&#160; &#8220;But, what do I know? I&#8217;m just
a traveling miscreant, here to eat your food and impress your
youths.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Mennis shook his head.&#160;
&#8220;You jest, but Tepper might have been right. I fear your
visit will bring us grief.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier smiled.&#160;
&#8220;That&#8217;s why I didn&#8217;t contradict him--at least,
not on the troublemaker point.&#8221;&#160; He paused, then smiled
more deeply. &#8220;In fact, I&#8217;d say calling me a
troublemaker is probably the only accurate thing Tepper has said
since I got here.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;How do you do
that?&#8221; Mennis asked, frowning.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Smile so
much.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, I&#8217;m just a
happy person.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Mennis glanced down at
Kelsier&#8217;s hands. &#8220;You know, I&#8217;ve only seen scars
like those on one other person--and he was dead. His body was
returned to Lord Tresting as proof that his punishment had been
carried out.&#8221; Mennis looked up at Kelsier. &#8220;He&#8217;d
been caught speaking of rebellion. Tresting sent him to the Pits of
Hathsin, where he was worked until he died. The lad lasted less
than a month.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier glanced down at his
hands and forearms. They still burned sometimes, though he was
certain the pain was only in his mind. He looked up at Mennis and
smiled. &#8220;You ask why I smile, Goodman Mennis? Well, the Lord
Ruler thinks he has claimed laughter and joy for himself. I&#8217;m
disinclined to let him do so. This is one battle that doesn&#8217;t
take very much effort to fight.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Mennis stared at Kelsier, and
for a moment Kelsier thought the old man might smile in
return.&#160; However, Mennis eventually just shook his head.
&#8220;I don&#8217;t know. I just don&#8217;t--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The scream cut him off. It came
from outside, perhaps to the north, though the mists distorted
sounds. The people in the hovel fell silent, listening to the
faint, high-pitched yells. Despite the distance and the mist,
Kelsier could hear the pain contained in those screams.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier burned tin.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was simple for him now,
after years of practice. The tin sat with other Allomantic metals
within his stomach, swallowed earlier, waiting for him to draw upon
them. He reached inside with his mind and touched the tin, tapping
powers he still barely understood. The tin flared to life within
him, burning his stomach like the sensation of a hot drink
swallowed to quickly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Allomantic power surged through
his body, enhancing his senses. The room around him became crisp,
the dull firepit flaring to near-blinding brightness. He could feel
the grain in the wood of the stool beneath him. He could still
taste the remnants of the loaf of bread he&#8217;d snacked on
earlier. Most importantly, he could hear the screams with
supernatural ears. Two separate people were yelling. One was an
older woman, the other a younger woman--perhaps a child. The
younger screams were getting further and further away.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Poor Jess,&#8221; a
nearby woman said, her voice booming in Kelsier&#8217;s enhanced
ears. &#8220;That child of hers was a curse. It&#8217;s better for
skaa not to have pretty daughters.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tepper nodded. &#8220;Lord
Tresting was sure to send for the girl sooner or later. We all knew
it. Jess knew it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Still a shame,
though,&#8221; another man said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The screams continued in the
distance. Burning tin, Kelsier was able to judge the direction
accurately. Her voice was moving toward the lord&#8217;s manor. The
sounds set something off within him, and he felt his face flush
with anger.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier turned. &#8220;Does
Lord Tresting ever return the girls after he&#8217;s finished with
them?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Old Mennis shook his head.
&#8220;Lord Tresting is a law-abiding nobleman--he has the girls
killed after a few weeks. He doesn&#8217;t want to catch the eye of
the Inquisitors.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That was the Lord Ruler&#8217;s
command. He couldn&#8217;t afford to have half-breed children
running around--children who might possess powers that skaa
weren&#8217;t even supposed to know existed. . . .</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The screams waned, but
Kelsier&#8217;s anger only built. &#160;The yells reminded him of
other screams. A woman&#8217;s screams from the past. He stood
abruptly, stool toppling to the ground behind him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Careful, lad,&#8221;
Mennis said apprehensively. &#8220;Remember what I said about
wasting energy. You&#8217;ll never raise that rebellion of yours if
you get yourself killed tonight.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier glanced toward the old
man. Then, through the screams and the pain, he forced himself to
smile. &#8220;I&#8217;m not here to lead a rebellion among you,
Goodman Mennis. I just want to stir up a little trouble.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What good could that
do?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier&#8217;s smile deepened.
&#8220;New days are coming. Survive a little longer, and you just
might see great happenings in the Final Empire. I bid you all
thanks for your hospitality.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;With that, he pulled open the
door and strode out into the mist.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Mennis lay awake in the early
hours of morning. It seemed that the older he became, the more
difficult it was for him to sleep. This was particularly true when
he was troubled about something, such as the traveler&#8217;s
failure to return to the hovel.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Mennis hoped that Kelsier had
come to his senses and decided to move on. However, that prospect
seemed unlikely--Mennis had seen the fire in Kelsier&#8217;s eyes.
It seemed such a shame that a man who had survived the Pits would
instead find death here, on a random plantation, trying to protect
a girl everyone else had given up for dead.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;How would Lord Tresting react?
He was said to be particularly harsh with anyone who interrupted
his night-time enjoyments. If Kelsier had managed to disturb the
master&#8217;s pleasures, Tresting might easily decide to punish
the rest of his skaa by association.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Eventually, the other skaa
began to awake. Mennis lay on the hard earth--bones aching, back
complaining, muscles exhausted--trying to decide if it was worth
rising. Each day, he nearly gave up. Each day, it was a little
harder. One day, he would just stay in the hovel, waiting until the
taskmasters came to kill those who were too sick or too elderly to
work.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But not today. He could see too
much fear in the eyes of the skaa--they knew that Kelsier&#8217;s
night-time activities would bring trouble. They needed Mennis; they
looked to him. He needed to get up.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And so, he did. Once he started
moving, the pains of age decreased slightly, and he was able to
shuffle out of the hovel toward the fields, leaning on a younger
man for support.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was then that he caught a
scent in the air. &#8220;What&#8217;s that?&#8221; he asked.
&#8220;Do you smell smoke?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Shum--the lad upon whom Mennis
leaned--paused. The last remnants of the night&#8217;s mist had
burned away, and the red sun was rising behind the sky&#8217;s
usual haze of blackish clouds.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I always smell smoke,
lately,&#8221; Shum said. &#8220;The Ashmounts are violent this
year.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; Mennis said,
feeling increasingly apprehensive. &#8220;This is different.&#8221;
He turned to the north, toward where a group of skaa were
gathering. He let go of Shum, shuffling toward the group, feet
kicking up dust and ash as he moved.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;At the center of the group of
people, he found Jess. Her daughter, the one they all assumed had
been taken by Lord Tresting, stood beside her. The young
girl&#8217;s eyes were red from lack of sleep, but she appeared
unharmed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;She came back not long
after they took her,&#8221; the woman was explaining. &#8220;She
came and pounded on the door, crying in the mist. Flen was sure it
was just a mistwraith impersonating her, but I had to let her in! I
don&#8217;t care what he says, I&#8217;m not giving her up. I
brought her out in the sunlight, and she didn&#8217;t disappear.
That proves she&#8217;s not a mistwraith!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Mennis stumbled back from the
growing crowd. Did none of them see it? No taskmasters came to
break up the group. No soldiers came to make the morning population
counts.&#160; Something was very wrong. Mennis continued to the
north, moving frantically toward the manor house.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;By the time he arrived, others
had noticed the twisting line of smoke that was just barely visible
in the morning light. Mennis wasn&#8217;t the first to arrive at
the edge of the short hill-top plateau, but the group made way for
him when he did.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The manor house was gone. Only
a blackened, smoldering scar remained.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;By the Lord
Ruler!&#8221; Mennis whispered. &#8220;What happened
here?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He killed them
all.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Mennis turned. The speaker was
Jess&#8217;s girl. She stood, looking down at the fallen house, a
satisfied expression on her youthful face.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They were dead when he
brought me out,&#8221; she said. &#8220;All of them--the soldiers,
the taskmasters, the lords. . .dead. Even Lord Tresting and his
obligators. The master had left me, going to investigate when the
noises began. On the way out, I saw him lying in his own blood,
stab-wounds in his chest. The man who saved me threw a torch in the
building as we left.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;This man,&#8221; Mennis
said. &#8220;He had scars on his hands and arms, reaching past the
elbows?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The girl nodded silently.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What kind of demon was
that man?&#8221; one of the skaa muttered uncomfortably.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Mistwraith,&#8221;
another whispered, apparently forgetting that Kelsier had gone out
during the day.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>But, he did go out into the
mist,</i> Mennis thought. <i>And, how did he accomplish a feat like
this. . . ? Lord Tresting kept over two dozen soldiers! Did Kelsier
have a hidden band of rebels, perhaps?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier&#8217;s words from the
night before sounded in his ears. <i>New days are coming. . .
.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But, what of us?&#8221;
Tepper asked, terrified. &#8220;What will happen when the Lord
Ruler hears this? He&#8217;ll think that we did it! He&#8217;ll
send us to the Pits, or maybe just send his koloss to slaughter us
outright! Why would that troublemaker do something like this?&#160;
Doesn&#8217;t he understand the damage he&#8217;s done?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He understands,&#8221;
Mennis said. &#8220;He warned us, Tepper. He came to stir up
trouble.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But, why?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Because he knew
we&#8217;d never rebel on our own, so he gave us no
choice.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tepper paled.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Lord Ruler,</i> Mennis
thought. <i>I can&#8217;t do this. I can barely get up in the
mornings--I can&#8217;t save this people.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But what other choice was
there?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Mennis turned. &#8220;Gather
the people, Tepper. We must flee before word of this disaster
reaches the Lord Ruler.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Where will we
go?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The caves to the
east,&#8221; Mennis said. &#8220;Travelers say there are rebel skaa
hiding in them.&#160; Perhaps they&#8217;ll take us in.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tepper paled further.&#160;
&#8220;But. . .we&#8217;d have to travel for days. Spend nights
<i>in the mist.</i>&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We can do that,&#8221;
Mennis said, &#8220;or we can stay here and die.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tepper stood frozen for a
moment, and Mennis thought the shock of it all might have
overwhelmed him.&#160; Eventually, however, the younger man
scurried off to gather the others, as commanded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Mennis sighed, looking up
toward the trailing line of smoke, cursing the man Kelsier quietly
in his mind.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;New days indeed.</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>Part One: The
Survivor of Hathsin</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I consider myself to be a
man of principle. But, what man does not? Even the cutthroat, I
have noticed, considers his actions &#8220;moral&#8221; after a
fashion.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Perhaps another person,
reading of my life, would name me a religious tyrant. He could call
me arrogant. What is to make that man&#8217;s opinion any less
valid than my own?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I guess it all comes down to
one fact: In the end, I&#8217;m the one with the armies.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h2><span class="Heading2Char">Chapter</span> One</h2>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Ash fell from the
sky.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin watched the downy flakes
drift through the air. Leisurely. Careless. Free. The puffs of soot
fell like black snowflakes, descending upon the dark city of
Luthadel. They drifted in corners, blowing in the breeze and
curling in tiny whirlwinds over the cobblestones. They seemed so
uncaring. What would that be like?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin sat quietly in one of the
crew&#8217;s watch-holes--a hidden alcove built into the bricks on
the side of the safehouse. From within it, a crewmember could watch
the street for signs of danger. Vin wasn&#8217;t on duty--the
watch-hole was simply one of the few places where she could find
solitude.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And Vin liked solitude. <i>When
you&#8217;re alone, no one can betray you.</i> Reen&#8217;s words.
Her brother had taught her so many things, then had reinforced them
by doing what he&#8217;d always promised he would--by betraying her
himself. <i>It&#8217;s the only way you&#8217;ll learn. Anyone will
betray you, Vin. Anyone.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The ash continued to fall.
Sometimes, Vin imagined she was like the ash, or the wind, or the
mist itself. A thing without thought, capable of simply
<i>being</i>, not thinking, caring, or hurting. Then she could be.
. .free.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She heard a shuffling a short
distance away, then the trap door at the back of the small chamber
snapped open.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Vin!&#8221; Ulef said,
sticking his head into the room. &#8220;There you are!
Camon&#8217;s been searching for you for a half hour.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>That&#8217;s kind of why I
hid in the first place.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You should get
going,&#8221; Ulef said. &#8220;The job&#8217;s almost ready to
begin.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Ulef was a gangly boy.&#160;
Nice, after his own fashion--naive, if one who had grown up in the
underworld could ever really be called &#8220;naive.&#8221; Of
course, that didn&#8217;t mean he wouldn&#8217;t betray her.
Betrayal had nothing to do with friendship--it was a simple fact of
survival. Life was harsh on the streets, and if a skaa thief wanted
to keep from being caught and executed, he had to be practical.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And ruthlessness was the very
most practical of emotions. Another of Reen&#8217;s sayings.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well?&#8221; Ulef
asked.&#160; &#8220;You should go. Camon&#8217;s mad.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>When is he not?</i>&#160;
However, Vin nodded, scrambling out of the cramped--yet
comforting--confines of the watch-hole. She brushed past Ulef and
hopped out of the trap door, moving into a run-down pantry. The
room was one of many at the back of the store that served as a
front for the safehouse. The crew&#8217;s lair itself was hidden in
a tunneled stone cavern beneath the building.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She left the building through a
back door, Ulef trailing behind her. The job would happen a few
blocks away, in a richer section of town. It was an intricate
job--one of the most complex Vin had ever seen. Assuming Camon
wasn&#8217;t caught, the payoff would be great indeed. If he was
caught. . . . Well, scamming noblemen and obligators was a very
dangerous profession--but it certainly beat working in the forges
or the textile mills.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin exited the alleyway, moving
out onto a dark, tenement-lined street in one of the city&#8217;s
many skaa slums. Skaa too sick to work lay huddled in corners and
gutters, soot drifting around them. Vin kept her head down and
pulled up her cloak&#8217;s hood against the still-falling
flakes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Free. No, I&#8217;ll never
be free. Reen made certain of that when he left.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There you are!&#8221;
Camon lifted a squat, fat finger and jabbed it toward her face.
&#8220;Where were you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin didn&#8217;t let hatred or
rebellion show in her eyes. She simply looked down, giving Camon
what he expected to see. There were other ways to be strong. That
lesson she had learned on her own.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon growled slightly, then
raised his hand and backhanded her across the face. The force of
the blow threw Vin back against the wall, and her cheek blazed with
pain. She slumped against the wood, but bore the punishment
silently. Just another bruise. She was strong enough to deal with
it. She&#8217;d done so before.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Listen,&#8221; Camon
hissed. &#8220;This is an important job. It&#8217;s worth thousands
of boxings--worth more than you a hundred times over. I won&#8217;t
have you fouling it up.&#160; Understand?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin nodded. &#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon studied her for a moment,
his pudgy face red with anger. Finally, he looked away, muttering
to himself.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He was annoyed about
something--something more than just Vin. Perhaps he had heard about
the skaa rebellion several days to the north. One of the provincial
lords, Themos Tresting, had apparently been murdered, his manor
burned to the ground. Such disturbances were bad for business--they
made the aristocracy more alert, and less gullible. That, in turn,
could cut seriously into Camon&#8217;s profits.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>He&#8217;s looking for
someone to punish,</i> Vin though. <i>He always gets nervous before
a job.</i>&#160; She looked up at Camon, tasting blood on her lip.
She must have let some of her confidence show, because he glanced
at her out of the corner of his eye, and his expression darkened.
He raised his hand, as if to strike her again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin used up a bit of her
Luck.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She expended just a
smidgen--she&#8217;d need the rest for the job. She directed the
Luck at Camon, calming his nervousness. The crewleader
paused--oblivious to Vin&#8217;s touch, yet feeling its effects
nonetheless. He stood for a moment, then he sighed, turning away
and lowering his hand.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin wiped her lip as Camon
waddled away. The thief master looked very convincing in his
nobleman&#8217;s suit. It was as rich a costume as Vin had ever
seen--it had a white shirt overlaid by a deep green vest with
engraved gold buttons. The black suit coat was long, after the
current fashion, and he wore a matching black hat. His fingers
sparkled with rings, and he even carried a fine dueling cane.
Indeed, Camon did an excellent job of imitating a nobleman--when it
came to playing a role, there were few thieves more competent than
Camon. Assuming he could keep his temper under control.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The room itself was less
impressive. Vin pulled herself to her feet as Camon began to snap
at some of the other crewmembers. They had rented one of the suites
at the top of a local hotel. Not too lavish--but that was the idea.
Camon was going to be playing the part of &#8220;Lord Jedue,&#8221;
a country nobleman who had hit upon hard financial times and come
to Luthadel to get some final, desperate contracts.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The main room had been
transformed into a sort of audience chamber, set with a large desk
for Camon to sit behind, the walls decorated with cheap pieces of
art. Two men stood beside the desk, dressed in formal
steward&#8217;s clothing--they would play the part of Camon&#8217;s
menservants.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What is this
ruckus?&#8221; a man asked, entering the room. He was tall, dressed
in a simple gray shirt and a pair of slacks, with a thin sword tied
at his waist. Theron was the other crewleader--this particular scam
was actually his. He&#8217;d brought in Camon as a partner;
he&#8217;d needed someone to play Lord Jedue, and everyone knew
that Camon was one of the best.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon looked up.&#160;
&#8220;Hum? Ruckus? Oh, that was just a minor discipline problem.
Don&#8217;t bother yourself, Theron.&#8221; Camon punctuated his
remark with a dismissive wave of the hand--there was a reason he
played such a good aristocrat. He was arrogant enough that he could
have been from one of the Great Houses.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Theron&#8217;s eyes narrowed.
Vin knew what the man was probably thinking--he was deciding how
risky it would be to put a knife in Camon&#8217;s fat back once the
scam was over.&#160; Eventually, the taller crewleader looked away
from Camon, glancing at Vin.&#160; &#8220;Who&#8217;s this?&#8221;
he asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Just a member of my
crew,&#8221; Camon said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I thought we
didn&#8217;t need anyone else.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, we need
her,&#8221; Camon said. &#8220;Ignore her. My end of the operation
is none of your concern.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Theron eyed Vin, obviously
noting her bloodied lip. She glanced away. Theron&#8217;s eyes
lingered on her, however, running down the length of her body. She
wore a simple white buttoned shirt and a pair of overalls. Indeed,
she was hardly enticing--scrawny with a youthful face, she
supposedly didn&#8217;t even look her sixteen years. &#160;Some men
preferred such women, however.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She considered using a bit of
Luck on him, but eventually he turned away. &#8220;The obligator is
nearly here,&#8221; Theron said. &#8220;Are you ready?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon rolled his eyes, settling
his bulk down into the chair behind the desk. &#8220;Everything is
perfect. Leave me be, Theron! Go back to your room and
wait.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Theron frowned, then spun and
walked from the room, muttering to himself.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin scanned the room, studying
the d&#233;cor, the servants, the atmosphere. Finally, she made her
way to Camon&#8217;s desk. The crewleader sat rifling through a
stack of papers, apparently trying to decide which ones to put out
on the desktop.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Camon,&#8221; Vin said
quietly, &#8220;the servants are too fine.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon frowned, looking up.
&#8220;What is that you&#8217;re babbling?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The servants,&#8221; Vin
repeated, still speaking in a soft whisper. &#8220;Lord Jedue is
supposed to be desperate. He&#8217;d have rich clothing left over
from before, but he wouldn&#8217;t be able to afford such rich
servants. He&#8217;d use skaa.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon glared at her, but he
paused. Physically, there was little difference between nobleman
and skaa. The servants Camon had appointed, however, were dressed
as minor noblemen--they were allowed to wear colorful vests, and
they stood a little confidently.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The obligator has to
think that you&#8217;re nearly impoverished,&#8221; Vin said.
&#8220;Pack the room with a lot of skaa servants
instead.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What do you know?&#8221;
Camon said, scowling at her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Enough.&#8221; She
immediately regretted the word--it sounded too rebellious. Camon
raised a bejeweled hand, and Vin braced herself for another slap.
She couldn&#8217;t afford to use up any more Luck--she had precious
little remaining anyway.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;However, Camon didn&#8217;t hit
her. Instead, he sighed and rested a pudgy hand on her shoulder.
&#8220;Why do you insist on provoking me, Vin? You know the debts
your brother left when he ran away. Do you realize that a
less-merciful man than myself would have sold you to the
whoremasters long ago? How would you like that, serving in some
nobleman&#8217;s bed until he grew tired of you and had you
executed?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin looked down at her
feet.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon&#8217;s grip grew tight,
his fingers pinching her skin where neck met shoulder, and she
gasped in pain despite herself. He grinned at the reaction.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Honestly, I don&#8217;t
know why I keep you, Vin,&#8221; he said, increasing the pressure
of his grip. &#8220;I should have gotten rid of you months ago,
when your brother betrayed me. I suppose I just have too kindly a
heart.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He finally released her, then
pointed for her to stand over by the side of the room, next to a
tall indoor plant. She did as ordered, orienting herself so she had
a good view of the entire room. As soon as Camon looked away, she
rubbed her shoulder. <i>Just another pain. I can deal with
pain.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon sat for a few moments.
Then, as expected, he waved to the two &#8220;servants&#8221; at
his side.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You two!&#8221; he
said.&#160; &#8220;You&#8217;re dressed too richly. Go put on
something that makes you look like skaa servants instead--and bring
back six more men with you when you come.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Soon, the room was filled as
Vin had suggested. The obligator arrived a short time later.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin watched Prelan Laird step
haughtily into the room. Shaved bald like all obligators, he wore a
set of dark gray robes. The Ministry tattoos around his eyes
identified him as a prelan, a senior bureaucrat in the
Ministry&#8217;s Canton of Finance. A set of lesser obligators
trailed behind him, their eye tattoos far less intricate.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon rose as the prelan
entered, a sign of respect--something even the highest of Great
House noblemen would show to an obligator of Laird&#8217;s rank.
Laird gave no bow or acknowledgement of his own, instead striding
forward and taking the seat in front of Camon&#8217;s desk. One of
the crewmen impersonating a servant rushed forward, bringing
chilled wine and fruit for the obligator.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Laird picked at the fruit,
letting the servant stand obediently, holding the platter of food
as if he were a piece of furniture. &#8220;Lord Jedue,&#8221; Laird
finally said. &#8220;I am glad we finally have opportunity to
meet.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;As am I, your
grace,&#8221; Camon said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Why is it, again, that
you were unable to come to the Canton building, instead requiring
that I visit you here?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;My knees, your
grace,&#8221; Camon said. &#8220;My physicians recommend that I
travel as little as possible.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>And you were rightly
apprehensive about being drawn into a Ministry stronghold,</i> Vin
thought.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I see,&#8221; Laird
said.&#160; &#8220;Bad knees. An unfortunate attribute in a man who
deals in transportation.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t have to go
on the trips, your grace,&#8221; Camon said, bowing his head.
&#8220;Just organize them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Good,</i> Vin thought.
<i>Make sure you remain subservient, Camon. You need to seem
desperate.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin needed this scam to
succeed. Camon threatened her and he beat her--but he considered
her a good luck charm. She wasn&#8217;t sure if he knew why his
plans went better when she was in the room, but he had apparently
made the connection. That made her valuable--and Reen had always
said that the surest way to stay alive in the underworld was to
make yourself indispensable.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I see,&#8221; Laird said
again. &#8220;Well, I fear that our meeting has come too late for
your purposes.&#160; The Canton of Finance has already voted on
your proposal.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So soon?&#8221; Camon
asked with genuine surprise.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; Laird
replied, taking a sip of his wine, still not dismissing the
servant. &#8220;We have decided not to accept your
contract.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon sat for a moment,
stunned. &#8220;I&#8217;m sorry to hear that, your
grace.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Laird came to meet you,</i>
Vin thought. <i>That mean&#8217;s he&#8217;s still in a position to
negotiate.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Indeed,&#8221; Camon
continued, seeing what Vin had. &#8220;That is especially
unfortunate, as I was ready to make the Ministry an even better
offer.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Laird raised a tattooed
eyebrow. &#8220;I doubt it will matter. There is an element of the
Council who feels that the Canton would receive better service if
we found a more stable house to transport our people.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That would be a grave
mistake,&#8221; Camon said smoothly. &#8220;Let us be frank, your
grace. We both know that this contract is House Jedue&#8217;s last
chance. Now that we&#8217;ve lost the Farwan deal, we cannot afford
to run our canal boats to Luthadel any more.&#160; Without the
Ministry&#8217;s patronage, my house is financially
doomed.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;This is doing very
little to persuade me, your lordship,&#8221; the obligator
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Isn&#8217;t it?&#8221;
Camon asked. &#8220;Ask yourself this, your grace--who will serve
you better? Will it be the house that has dozens of contracts to
divide its attention, or the house that views your contract as its
last hope? The Canton of Finance will not find a more accommodating
partner than a desperate one. Let my boats be the one that bring
your acolytes down from the north--let my soldiers escort them--and
you will not be disappointed.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Good,</i> Vin thought.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I. . .see,&#8221; the
obligator said, now troubled.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I would be willing to
give you an extended contract, locked in at the price of fifty
boxings a head per trip, your grace. Your acolytes would be able to
travel our boats at their leisure, and would always have the
escorts they need.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The obligator raised an
eyebrow. &#8220;That&#8217;s half the former fee.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I told you,&#8221; Camon
said. &#8220;We&#8217;re desperate. My house <i>needs</i> too keep
its boats running.&#160; Fifty boxings will not make us a profit,
but that doesn&#8217;t matter. Once we have the Ministry contract
to bring us stability, we can find other contracts to fill our
coffers.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Laird looked thoughtful.
&#160;It was a fabulous deal--one that might ordinarily have been
suspicious. However, Camon&#8217;s presentation created the image
of a house on the brink of financial collapse. The other
crewleader, Theron, had spent five years building, scamming, and
finagling to create this moment. The Ministry would be remiss not
to consider the opportunity.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Laird was realizing just that.
The Steel Ministry was not just the force of bureaucracy and legal
authority in the Final Empire--it was like a noble house unto
itself. The more wealth it had, the better its own mercantile
contracts, the more leverage the various Ministry Cantons had with
each other--and with the noble houses.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Laird was still obviously
hesitant, however. Vin could see the look in his eyes, the
suspicion she knew well. He was not going to take the contract.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Now,</i> Vin thought.
<i>It&#8217;s my turn</i>.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin used her Luck on Laird. She
reached out tentatively--not even really sure what she was doing,
or why she could even do it. Yet, her touch was instinctive,
trained through years of subtle practice. She&#8217;d been ten
years old before she&#8217;d realized that other people
couldn&#8217;t do what she could.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She pressed against
Laird&#8217;s emotions, dampening them. He became less suspicious,
less afraid.&#160; Docile. His worries melted away, and Vin could
see a calm sense of control begin to assert itself in his
eyes.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Yet, Laird still seemed
slightly uncertain. Vin pushed harder. He cocked his head, looking
thoughtful. He opened his mouth to speak, but she pushed against
him again, desperately using up her last pinch of Luck.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He paused again. &#8220;Very
well,&#8221; he finally said. &#8220;I will take this new proposal
to the Council.&#160; Perhaps an agreement can still be
reached.&#8221;<br clear="all" style=
'page-break-before: always' /></p>
<p class="MsoBodyText"><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;If men read these words, let
them know that power is a heavy burden. Seek not to be bound by its
chains. The Terris prophecies say that I will have the power to
save the world.</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>They hint, however, that I
will have the power to destroy it as well.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h2>Chapter Two</h2>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;In Kelsier&#8217;s opinion, the
city of Luthadel--seat of the Lord Ruler--was a gloomy sight. Most
of the buildings had been built from stone blocks, with tile roofs
for the wealthy, and simple, peaked wooden roofs for the rest. The
structures were packed closely together, making them seem squat
despite the fact that they were generally three-stories high.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The tenements and shops were
uniform in appearance--this was not a place to draw attention to
one&#8217;s self. Unless, of course, you were a member of the high
nobility.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Interspersed throughout the
city were a dozen or so monolithic keeps. Intricate, with rows of
spear-like spires or deep archways, these were the homes of the
high nobility.&#160; In fact, they were the <i>mark</i> of a high
noble family--any family who could afford to build a keep and
maintain a high profile presence in Luthadel was considered to be a
Great House.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Most of the open ground in the
city was around these keeps. The patches of space amidst the
tenements were like clearings in a forest, the keeps themselves
like solitary mounts rising above the rest of the landscape. Black
mountains. Like the rest of the city, the keeps were stained by
countless years of ashfalls.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Every structure in
Luthadel--virtually every structure Kelsier had ever seen--had been
blackened to some degree. Even the city wall, upon which Kelsier
now stood, was blackened by a patina of soot. Structures were
generally darkest at the top, where the ash gathered, but
rainwaters and evening condensations had carried the stains over
ledges and down walls. Like paint running down a canvas, the
darkness seemed to creep down the sides of buildings in an uneven
gradient.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The streets, of course, were
completely black. Kelsier stood waiting, scanning the city as a
group of skaa workers worked in the street below, clearing away the
latest mounds of ash. They&#8217;d take it to the River Channerel,
which ran through the center of the city, sending the piles of ash
to be washed away, lest it pile up and eventually bury the city.
Sometimes, Kelsier wondered why the entire empire wasn&#8217;t just
one big mound of ash. He supposed it must break down into soil
eventually. Yet, it took a ridiculous amount of effort to keep
cities and fields clear enough to be used.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Fortunately, there were always
enough skaa to do the work. The workers below him wore simple coats
and trousers, ash-stained and worn. Like the plantation workers he
had left behind several weeks before, they worked with beaten-down,
despondent motions. Other groups of skaa passed the workers,
responding to the bells in the distance, chiming the hour and
calling them to their morning&#8217;s work at the forges or mills.
Luthadel&#8217;s main export was metal--the city was home to
hundreds of forges and refineries. However, the surgings of the
river provided excellent locations for mills, both to grind grains
and make textiles.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The skaa continued to work.
Kelsier turned away from them, looking up into the distance, toward
the city center, where the Lord Ruler&#8217;s palace loomed like
some kind of massive, multi-spined insect. Kredik Shaw, the Hill of
a Thousand Spires. The palace was several times the size of any
nobleman&#8217;s keep, and was by far the largest building in the
city.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Another ashfall began as
Kelsier stood contemplating the city, the flakes falling lightly
down upon the streets and buildings. <i>A lot of ashfalls,
lately,</i> he thought, glad for the excuse to pull up the hood on
his cloak. <i>The ashmounts must be active.</i>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was unlikely that anyone in
Luthadel would recognize him--it had been three years since his
capture. Still, the hood was reassuring. If all went well, there
would come a time when Kelsier would want to be seen and
recognized. For now, anonymity was probably better.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Eventually, a figure approached
along the wall. The man, Dockson, was shorter than Kelsier, and he
had a squarish face that seemed well-suited to his moderately
stocky build. A nondescript brown hooded cloak covered his black
hair, and he wore the same short half-beard that he&#8217;d sported
since his face had first put forth whiskers some twenty years
before.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He, like Kelsier, wore a
nobleman&#8217;s suit: colored vest, dark coat and trousers, and a
thin cloak to keep off the soot. The clothing wasn&#8217;t rich,
but it was aristocratic--indicative of the Luthadel middle class.
Most men of noble birth weren&#8217;t wealthy enough to be
considered part of a Great House--yet, in the Final Empire,
nobility wasn&#8217;t just about money. It was about lineage and
history; the Lord Ruler was immortal, and he apparently still
remembered the men who had supported him during the early years of
his reign. The descendants of those men, no matter how poor they
became, would always be favored.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The clothing would keep passing
guard patrols from asking too many questions. In the cases of
Kelsier and Dockson, of course, that clothing was a lie. Neither
was actually noble--though, technically, Kelsier was a half-blood.
In many ways, however, that was worse than being just a normal
skaa.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dockson strolled up next to
Kelsier, then leaned against the battlement, resting a pair of
stout arms on the stone. &#8220;You&#8217;re a few days late,
Kell.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I decided to make a few
extra stops in the plantations to the north.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ah,&#8221; Dockson
said.&#160; &#8220;So you <i>did</i> have something to do with Lord
Tresting&#8217;s death.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier smiled. &#8220;You
could say that.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;His murder caused quite
a stir among the local nobility.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That was kind of the
intention,&#8221; Kelsier said. &#8220;Though, to be honest, I
wasn&#8217;t planning anything quite so dramatic. It was almost
more of an accident than anything else.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dockson raised an eyebrow.
&#8220;How do you &#8216;accidentally&#8217; kill a noblemen in his
own mansion?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;With a knife in the
chest,&#8221; Kelsier said lightly. &#8220;Or, rather, a pair of
knives in the chest--it always pays to be careful.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dockson rolled his eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;His death isn&#8217;t
exactly a loss, Dox,&#8221; Kelsier said. &#8220;Even among the
nobility, Tresting had a reputation for cruelty.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t care about
Tresting,&#8221; Dockson said. &#8220;I&#8217;m just considering
the state of insanity that led me to plan another job with you.
Attacking a provincial lord in his manor house, surrounded by
guards. . . . Honestly, Kell, I&#8217;d nearly forgotten how
foolhardy you can be.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Foolhardy?&#8221;
Kelsier asked with a laugh. &#8220;That wasn&#8217;t
foolhardy--that was just a small diversion.&#160; You should see
some of the things I&#8217;m <i>planning</i> to do!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dockson stood for a moment,
then he laughed too. &#8220;By the Lord Ruler, it&#8217;s good to
have you back, Kell! I&#8217;m afraid I&#8217;ve grown rather
boring during the last few years.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We&#8217;ll fix
that,&#8221; Kelsier promised. He took a deep breath, ash falling
lightly around him. Skaa cleaning crews were already back at work
on the streets below, brushing up the dark ash. Behind, a guard
patrol passed, nodding to Kelsier and Dockson. They waited in
silence for the men to pass.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It&#8217;s good to be
back,&#8221; Kelsier finally said. &#8220;There&#8217;s something
homey about Luthadel--even if it is a depressing, stark pit of a
city. You have the meeting organized?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dockson nodded. &#8220;We
can&#8217;t start until this evening, though. How&#8217;d you get
in, anyway? I had men watching the gates.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Hmm? Oh, I snuck in last
night.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But how--&#8221; Dockson
paused. &#8220;Oh, right. That&#8217;s going to take some getting
used to.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier shrugged. &#8220;I
don&#8217;t see why. You always work with Mistings.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, but this is
different,&#8221; Dockson said. He held up a hand to forestall
further argument.&#160; &#8220;No need, Kell. I&#8217;m not
hedging--I just said it would take some getting used to.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Fine. Who&#8217;s coming
tonight?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, Breeze and Ham
will be there, of course. They&#8217;re very curious about this
mystery job of ours--not to mention rather annoyed that I
won&#8217;t tell him what you&#8217;ve been up to these last few
years.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Good,&#8221; Kelsier
said with a smile. &#8220;Let them wonder. How about
Trap?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dockson shook his head.
&#8220;Trap&#8217;s dead. The Ministry finally caught up with him a
couple months ago. Didn&#8217;t even bother sending him to the
Pits--they beheaded him on the spot.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier closed his eyes,
exhaling softly. It seemed that the Steel Ministry caught up with
everyone eventually. Sometimes, Kelsier felt that a skaa Misting
life wasn&#8217;t so much about surviving as it was about picking
the right time to die.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;This leaves us without a
Smoker,&#8221; Kelsier finally said, opening his eyes. &#8220;You
have any suggestions?&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ruddy,&#8221; Dockson
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier shook his head.
&#8220;No. He&#8217;s a good Smoker, but he&#8217;s not a good
enough man.&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dockson smiled. &#8220;Not a
good enough man to be on a thieving crew. . . . Kell, I <i>have</i>
missed working with you. All right, who then?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier thought for a moment.
&#8220;Is Clubs still running that shop of his?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;As far as I know,&#8221;
Dockson said slowly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He&#8217;s supposed to
be one of the best Smokers in the city.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I suppose,&#8221;
Dockson said. &#8220;But. . .isn&#8217;t he supposed to be kind of
hard to work with?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He&#8217;s not so
bad,&#8221; Kelsier said. &#8220;Not once you get used to him.
Besides, I think he might be. . .amenable to this particular
job.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;All right,&#8221;
Dockson said, shrugging. &#8220;I&#8217;ll invite him. I think one
of his relatives is a Tineye.&#160; Do you want me to invite him
too?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Sounds good,&#8221;
Kelsier said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;All right,&#8221;
Dockson said. &#8220;Well, beyond that, there&#8217;s just Yeden.
Assuming he&#8217;s still interested. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He&#8217;ll be
there,&#8221; Kelsier said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He&#8217;d better
be,&#8221; Dockson said. &#8220;He&#8217;ll be the one paying us,
after all.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier nodded, then frowned.
&#8220;You didn&#8217;t mention Marsh.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dockson shrugged. &#8220;I
warned you. Your brother never did approve of our methods, and now.
. .well, you know Marsh. He won&#8217;t even have anything to do
with Yeden and the rebellion any more, let alone with a bunch of
criminals like us. I think we&#8217;ll have to find someone else to
infiltrate the obligators.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; Kelsier
said.&#160; &#8220;He&#8217;ll do it. I&#8217;ll just have to stop
by to persuade him.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;If you say
so.&#8221;&#160; Dockson fell silent then, and the two stood for a
moment, leaning against the railing and looking out over the
ash-stained city.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dockson finally shook his head.
&#8220;This is insane, eh?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier smiled. &#8220;Feels
good, doesn&#8217;t it?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dockson nodded.&#160;
&#8220;Fantastic.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It will be a job like no
other,&#8221; Kelsier said, looking north--across the city and
toward the twisted building at its center.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dockson stepped away from the
wall. &#8220;We have a few hours before the meeting. There&#8217;s
something I want to show you. I think there&#8217;s still time--if
we hurry.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier turned with curious
eyes. &#8220;Well, I <i>was</i> going to go and chastise my prude
of a brother. But. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;This will be worth your
time,&#8221; Dockson promised.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin sat in the corner of the
safehouse&#8217;s main lair. She kept to the shadows, as usual--the
more she stayed out of sight, the more the others would ignore her.
She couldn&#8217;t afford to expend Luck keeping the men&#8217;s
hands off of her. She&#8217;d barely had time to regenerate what
she&#8217;d used a few days before, during the meeting with the
obligator.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The usual rabble lounged at
tables in the room, playing at dice or discussing minor jobs. Smoke
from a dozen different pipes pooled at the top of the chamber, and
the walls were stained dark from countless years of similar
treatment. The floor was darkened with patches of ash--like most
thieving crews, Camon&#8217;s group wasn&#8217;t known for its
tidiness.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;There was a door at the back of
the room, and beyond it lay a twisting stone stairway that led up
to a false rain-grate in an alleyway. This room, like so many
others hidden in the imperial capital of Luthadel, wasn&#8217;t
supposed to exist. &#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Rough laughter came from the
front of the chamber, where Camon sat with a half-dozen cronies
enjoying a typical afternoon of ale and crass jokes. Camon&#8217;s
table sat beside the bar, where the over-priced drinks were simply
another way Camon exploited those who worked for him. The Luthadel
criminal element had learned quite well from the lessons taught by
the nobility.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin tried her best to remain
invisible. Six months before, she wouldn&#8217;t have believed that
her life could actually get worse without Reen. Yet, despite her
brother&#8217;s abusive anger, he had kept the other crewmembers
from having their way with Vin. There were relatively few women on
thieving crews--generally, those women who got involved with the
underworld ended up as whores. Reen had always told her that a girl
needed to be tough--tougher, even, than a man--if she wanted to
survive.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>You think some crewleader is
going to want a liability like you on his team?</i> he had
said.&#160; <i>I don&#8217;t even want to have to work with you,
and I&#8217;m your brother.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Her back still throbbed--Camon
had whipped her the day before. The blood would ruin her shirt, and
she wouldn&#8217;t be able to afford another one. Camon was already
retaining her wages to pay the debts Reen had left behind.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>But, I am strong,</i> she
thought.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That was the irony.&#160; The
beatings almost didn&#8217;t hurt anymore, for Reen&#8217;s
frequent abuses had left Vin resilient, while at the same time
teaching her how to look pathetic and broken. In a way, the
beatings were self-defeating. Bruises and welts mended, but each
new lashing left Vin more hardened. Stronger.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon stood up. He reached into
his vest pocket and pulled out his golden pocket watch. He nodded
to one of his companions, then he scanned the room, searching for.
. .her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;His eyes locked on Vin.
&#8220;It&#8217;s time.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin frowned. <i>Time for
what?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The Ministry&#8217;s Canton of
Finance was an imposing structure--but, then, <i>everything</i>
about the Steel Ministry tended to be imposing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Tall and blocky, the building
had a massive rose-window in the front, though the glass was dark
from the outside. Two large banners hung down beside the window,
the soot-stained red cloth proclaiming praises to the Lord
Ruler.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon studied the building with
a critical eye. Vin could sense his apprehension. The Canton of
Finance was hardly the most threatening of Ministry offices--the
Canton of Inquisition, or even the Canton of Orthodoxy, had far
more ominous reputations. However, voluntarily entering any
Ministry office. . .putting yourself in the power of the
obligators. . .well, it was a thing to do only after serious
consideration.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon took a deep breath, then
strode forward, his dueling cane tapping against the stones as he
walked. He wore his rich nobleman&#8217;s suit, and he was
accompanied by a half dozen crewmembers--including Vin--to act as
his &#8220;servants.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin followed Camon up the
steps, then waited as one of the crewmembers jumped forward to pull
the door open for his &#8220;master.&#8221; Of the six attendants,
only Vin seemed to have been told nothing of Camon&#8217;s plan.
Suspiciously, Theron--Camon&#8217;s supposed partner in the
Ministry scam--was nowhere to be seen.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin entered the Canton
building. Vibrant red light, sparkled with lines of blue, fell from
the rose window. A single obligator, with mid-level tattoos around
his eyes, sat behind a desk at the end of the extended
entryway.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon approached, his cane
thumping against the carpet as he walked. &#8220;I am Lord
Jedue,&#8221; he said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>What are you doing,
Camon?</i> Vin thought. <i>You insisted to Theron that you
wouldn&#8217;t meet with Prelan Laird in his Canton office. Yet,
now you&#8217;re here.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The obligator nodded, making a
notation in his ledger. He waved to the side. &#8220;You may take
one attendant with you into the waiting chamber. The rest must
remain here.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon&#8217;s huff of disdain
indicated what he thought of that prohibition. The obligator,
however, didn&#8217;t look up from his ledger. Camon stood for a
moment, and Vin couldn&#8217;t tell if he were genuinely angry or
just playing the part of an arrogant nobleman.&#160; Finally, he
jabbed a finger at Vin.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Come,&#8221; he said,
turning and waddling toward the indicated door.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The room beyond was lavish and
plush, and several noblemen lounged in various postures of
waiting.&#160; Camon chose a chair and settled into it, then
pointed toward a table set with wine and red-frosted cakes. Vin
obediently fetched him a glass of wine and a plate of food,
ignoring her own hunger.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon began to pick hungrily at
the cakes, smacking quietly as he ate.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>He&#8217;s nervous. More
nervous, even, than before.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Once we get in, you will
say nothing,&#8221; Camon grumbled between bites.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;re betraying
Theron,&#8221; Vin whispered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon nodded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But, how?
Why?&#8221;&#160; Theron&#8217;s plan was complex in execution, but
simple in concept. Every year, the Ministry transferred its new
acolyte obligators from a northern training facility south to
Luthadel for final instruction. Theron had discovered, however,
that those acolytes and their overseers brought down with them
large amounts of Ministry funds--disguised as baggage--to be
strongholded in Luthadel.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Banditry was very difficult in
the Final Empire, what with the constant patrols along canal
routes. However, if one were running the very canal boats that the
acolytes were sailing upon, a robbery could become possible.
Arranged at just the right time. . .the guards turning on their
passengers. . .a man could make quite a profit, then blame it all
on banditry.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Theron&#8217;s crew is
weak,&#8221; Camon said quietly. &#8220;He expended too many
resources on this job.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But, the return
he&#8217;ll make--&#8221; Vin said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Will never happen if I
take what I can now, then run,&#8221; Camon said, smiling.
&#8220;I&#8217;ll talk the obligators into a down payment to get my
convoy boats afloat, then disappear and leave Theron to deal with
the disaster when the Ministry realizes that its been
scammed.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin stood back, slightly
shocked. Setting up a scam like this would have cost Theron
thousands upon thousands of boxings--if the deal fell through now,
he would be ruined.&#160; And, with the Ministry hunting him, he
wouldn&#8217;t even have time to seek revenge. Camon would make a
quick profit, as well as rid himself of one of his more powerful
rivals.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Theron was a fool to bring
Camon into this,</i> she thought. But, then, the amount Theron had
promised to pay Camon was great--he probably assumed that
Camon&#8217;s greed would keep him honest until Theron himself
could pull a double-cross. Camon had simply worked faster than
anyone, even Vin, had expected. How could Theron have known that
Camon would undermine the job itself, rather than wait and try and
steal the entire haul from the convoy?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin&#8217;s stomach
twisted.&#160; <i>It&#8217;s just another betrayal</i>, she thought
sickly. <i>Why does it still bother me so? Everyone betrays
everyone else. That&#8217;s the way life is. . . .</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She wanted to find a
corner--someplace cramped and secluded--and hide. Alone.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Anyone will betray you.
Anyone.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But there was no place to go.
Eventually, a minor obligator entered and called for Lord Jedue.
Vin followed Camon as they were ushered into an audience
chamber.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The man who waited inside,
sitting behind the audience desk, was not Prelan Laird.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon paused in the doorway.
The room was austere, bearing only the desk and simple gray
carpeting. The stone walls were unadorned, the only window barely a
handspan wide. The obligator who waited for them had some of the
most intricate tattoos around his eyes that Vin had ever seen--she
wasn&#8217;t even certain what rank they implied, but they extended
all the way back to the obligator&#8217;s ears and up over his
forehead.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Lord Jedue,&#8221; the
strange obligator said.&#160; Like Laird, he wore gray robes, but
he was very different from the stern, bureaucratic men Camon had
dealt with before. This man was lean in a muscular way, and his
clean-shaven, triangular head gave him an almost predatory
look.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I was under the
impression that I would be meeting with Prelan Larid,&#8221; Camon
said, still not moving into the room.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Prelan Laird has been
called away on other business. I am High Prelan Arriev---head of
the board that was reviewing your proposal. You have a rare
opportunity to address me directly. I normally don&#8217;t hear
cases in person, but Laird&#8217;s absence has made it necessary
for me to share in some of his work.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin&#8217;s instincts made her
tense. <i>We should go. Now.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon stood for a long moment,
and Vin could see him considering. Run now? Or, take a risk for the
greater prize? Vin didn&#8217;t care about prizes--she just wanted
to live. Camon, however, had not become crewleader without the
occasional gamble. He slowly moved into the room, eyes cautious as
he took the seat opposite the obligator.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, High Prelan
Arriev,&#8221; Camon said with a careful voice. &#8220;I assume
that since I have been called back for another appointment, the
board is considering my offer?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Indeed we are,&#8221;
the obligator said. &#8220;Though I must admit, there are some
Council members who are apprehensive about dealing with a family
that is so near to economic disaster.&#160; The Ministry generally
prefers to be conservative in its financial operations.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I see.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But,&#8221; Arriev said,
&#8220;there are others on the board who are quite eager to take
advantage of the savings you offered us.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And with which group do
you identify, your grace?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I, as of yet, have not
made my decision.&#8221; The obligator leaned forward. &#8220;Which
is why I noted that you have a rare opportunity. Convince me, Lord
Jedue, and you will have your contract.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Surely Prelan Laird
outlined the details of our offer,&#8221; Camon said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, but I would like to
hear the arguments from you personally. Humor me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin frowned. She remained near
the back of the room, standing near the door, still half-convinced
she should run.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well?&#8221; Arriev
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We need this contract,
your grace,&#8221; Camon said. &#8220;Without it we won&#8217;t be
able to continue our canal shipping operations. Your contract would
give us a much-needed period of stability--a chance to maintain our
convoy boats for a time while we search for other
contracts.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Arriev studied Camon for a
moment. &#8220;Surely you can do better than that, Lord Jedue.
Laird said that you were very persuasive--let me hear you
<i>prove</i> that you deserve our patronage.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin prepared her Luck.&#160;
She could make Arriev more inclined to believe. . .but, something
restrained her. The situation felt wrong.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;We are your best choice,
your grace,&#8221; Camon said. &#8220;You fear that my house will
suffer economic failure? Well, if it does, what have you lost? At
worst, my narrowboats would stop running, and you would have to
find other merchants to deal with. Yet, if your patronage is enough
to maintain my house, then you have found yourself an enviable
long-term contract.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I see,&#8221; Arriev
said lightly. &#8220;And why the Ministry? Why not make your deal
with someone else?&#160; Surely there are other options for your
boats--other groups who would jump at such rates.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon frowned. &#8220;This
isn&#8217;t about money, your grace, it is about the victory--the
showing of confidence--that we would gain by having a Ministry
contract. If you trust us, others will too. I <i>need</i> your
support.&#8221; Camon was sweating now. He was probably beginning
to regret this gamble. Had he been betrayed? Was Theron behind the
odd meeting?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The obligator waited quietly.
He could destroy them, Vin knew. If he even suspected that they
were scamming him, he could give them over to the Canton of
Inquisition. More than one nobleman had entered a Canton building
and never returned.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Gritting her teeth, Vin reached
out and used her Luck on the obligator, making him less
suspicious.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Arriev smiled. &#8220;Well, you
have convinced me,&#8221; he suddenly declared.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon sighed in relief.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Arriev continued, &#8220;Your
most recent letter suggested that you need three thousand boxings
as an advance to refurbish your equipment and resume shipping
operations. See the scribe in the main hallway to finish the
paperwork so that you may requisition the necessary
funds.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The obligator pulled a sheet of
thick bureaucratic paper from a stack, then stamped a seal at the
bottom. He proffered it toward Camon. &#8220;Your
contract.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon smiled deeply.&#160;
&#8220;I knew coming to the Ministry was the wise choice,&#8221; he
said, accepting the contract. He stood, nodding respectfully to the
obligator, then motioned for Vin to open the door for him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She did so. <i>Something is
wrong. Something is</i> very <i>wrong.</i> She paused as Camon
left, looking back at the obligator. He was still smiling.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A happy obligator was always a
bad sign.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Yet, no one stopped them as
they passed through the waiting room with its noble occupants.
Camon sealed and delivered the contract to the appropriate scribe,
and no soldiers appeared to arrest them. The scribe pulled out a
small chest filled with coins, and then handed it to Camon with an
indifferent hand.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Then, they simply left the
Canton building, Camon gathering his other attendants with obvious
relief.&#160; No cries of alarm. No tromping of soldiers. They were
free. Camon had successfully scammed both the Ministry and another
crewleader.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Apparently.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier stuffed another one of
the little red-frosted cakes into his mouth, chewing with
satisfaction.&#160; The fat thief and his scrawny attendant passed
through the waiting room, entering the entryway beyond. The
obligator who had interviewed the two thieves remained in his
office, apparently awaiting his next appointment</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well?&#8221; Dockson
asked.&#160; &#8220;What do you think?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier glanced at the cakes.
&#8220;They&#8217;re quite good,&#8221; he said, taking another
one. &#8220;The Ministry has always had excellent taste--it makes
sense that they would provide superior snacks.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dockson rolled his eyes.
&#8220;About the girl, Kell.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier smiled as he piled four
of the cakes in his hand, then nodded toward the doorway. The
Canton waiting room was growing too busy for the discussion of
delicate matters. On the way out, he paused and told the obligator
secretary in the corner that they needed to reschedule.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Then, the two crossed through
the entry chamber--passing the overweight crewleader, who stood
speaking with a scribe. Kelsier stepped out onto the street, pulled
his hood up against the still-falling ash, then led the way across
the street. He paused beside a alleyway, standing where he and
Dockson could watch the Canton building&#8217;s doors.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier munched contentedly on
his cakes. &#8220;How&#8217;d you find out about her?&#8221; he
asked between bites.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your brother,&#8221;
Dockson replied. &#8220;Camon tried to swindle Marsh a few months
ago, and he brought the girl with him then, too. Actually,
Camon&#8217;s little good-luck charm is becoming moderately famous
in the right circles. I&#8217;m still not sure if he knows what she
is or not. You know how superstitious thieves can get.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier nodded, dusting off his
hands. &#8220;How&#8217;d you know she&#8217;d be here
today?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dockson shrugged. &#8220;A few
bribes in the right place. I&#8217;ve been keeping an eye on the
girl ever since Marsh pointed her out to me. I wanted to give you
an opportunity to see her work for yourself.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Across the street, the Canton
building&#8217;s door finally opened, and Camon made his way down
the steps surrounded by a group of &#8220;servants.&#8221; The
small, short-haired girl was with him. The sight of her made
Kelsier frown. She had a nervous anxiety to her step, and she
jumped slightly whenever someone made a quick move. The right side
of her face was still slightly discolored from a partially-healed
bruise.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier eyed the self-important
Camon. <i>I&#8217;ll have to come up with something particularly
suitable to do to that man.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Poor thing,&#8221;
Dockson muttered.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier nodded.&#160;
&#8220;She&#8217;ll be free of him soon enough. It&#8217;s a wonder
no one discovered her before this.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Your brother was right
then?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier nodded.
&#8220;She&#8217;s at least a Misting, and if Marsh says
she&#8217;s more, I&#8217;m inclined to believe him.&#160;
I&#8217;m a bit surprised to see her using Allomancy on a member of
the Ministry, especially inside a Canton building. I&#8217;d guess
that she doesn&#8217;t know that she&#8217;s even using her
abilities.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Is that possible?&#8221;
Dockson asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier nodded. &#8220;Trace
minerals in the water can be burned, if just for a tiny bit of
power. That&#8217;s one of the reasons the Lord Ruler built his
city here--lots of metals in the ground. I&#8217;d say that. . .
.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier trailed of, frowning
slightly. Something was wrong. He glanced toward Camon and his
crew. They were still visible in the near distance, crossing the
street and heading south.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A figure appeared in the Canton
Building&#8217;s doorway. Lean with a confident air, he bore the
tattoos of a high prelan of the Canton of Finance around his eyes.
Probably the very man Camon had met with shortly before. The
obligator stepped out of the building, and a second man exited
behind him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Beside Kelsier, Dockson
suddenly grew stiff.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The second man was tall with a
strong build. As he turned, Kelsier was able to see that a thick
metal spike had been pounded tip-first through each of the
man&#8217;s eyes. With shafts as wide as an eye socket, the
nail-like spikes were long enough that their sharp points jutted
out about an inch from the back of the man&#8217;s clean-shaven
skull. The flat spike-ends shone like two silvery disks, sticking
out of the sockets in the front, where the eyes should have
been.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A Steel Inquisitor.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What&#8217;s <i>that</i>
doing here?&#8221; Dockson asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Stay calm,&#8221;
Kelsier said, trying to force himself to do the same. The
Inquisitor looked toward them, spiked eyes regarding Kelsier,
before turning in the direction that Camon and the girl had gone.
Like all Inquisitors, he wore intricate eye tattoos--mostly black,
with one stark red line--that marked him as a high-ranking member
of the Canton of Inquisition.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He&#8217;s not here for
us,&#8221; Kelsier said. &#8220;I&#8217;m not burning
anything--he&#8217;ll think that we&#8217;re just ordinary
noblemen.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The girl,&#8221; Dockson
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier nodded. &#8220;You say
Camon&#8217;s been running this scam on the Ministry for a while.
Well, the girl must have been detected by one of the obligators.
They&#8217;re trained to recognize when an Allomancer tampers with
their emotions.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dockson frowned thoughtfully.
Across the street, the Inquisitor conferred with the other
obligator, then the two of them turned to walk in the direction
that Camon had gone. There was no urgency to their pace.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They must have sent a
tail to follow them,&#8221; Dockson said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;This is the
Ministry,&#8221; Kelsier said. &#8220;There&#8217;ll be two tails,
at least.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dockson nodded. &#8220;Camon
will lead them directly back to his safehouse. Dozens of men
thieves will die. They&#8217;re not all the most admirable people,
but. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They fight the Final
Empire, in their own way,&#8221; Kelsier said. &#8220;Besides,
I&#8217;m not about to let a possible Mistborn slip away from us--I
want to talk to that girl. Can you deal with those
tails?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I said I&#8217;d become
boring, Kell,&#8221; Dockson said. &#8220;Not sloppy. I can handle
a couple of Ministry flunkies.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Good,&#8221; Kelsier
said, reaching into his cloak pocket and pulling out a small vial.
A collection of metal flakes floated in an alcohol solution within.
Iron, steel, tin, pewter, copper, bronze, zinc, and brass--the
eight basic Allomantic metals. Kelsier pulled off the stopper and
downed the contents in a single swift gulp.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He pocketed the now-empty vial,
wiping his mouth. &#8220;I&#8217;ll handle that
Inquisitor.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dockson looked apprehensive.
&#8220;You&#8217;re going to try and take him?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier shook his head.
&#8220;Too dangerous. I&#8217;ll just divert him. Now, get
going--we don&#8217;t want those tails finding the
safehouse.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dockson nodded. &#8220;Meet
back at the fifteenth crossroad,&#8221; he said before taking off
down the alley and disappearing around a corner.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier gave his friend a count
of ten before reaching within himself and burning his metals. His
body came awash with strength, clarity, and power.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier smiled, then--burning
zinc--he reached out and yanked firmly on the Inquisitor&#8217;s
emotions. The creature froze in place, then spun, looking back
toward the Canton building.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Let&#8217;s have a chase
now, you and I,</i> Kelsier thought.</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>We arrived in Terris earlier
this week, and, I have to say, I find the countryside beautiful.
The great mountains to the north--with their bald snowcaps and
forested mantles--stand like watchful gods over this land of green
fertility. My own lands to the south are mostly flat; I think that
they might look less dreary if there were a few mountains to vary
the terrain.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>The people here are mostly
herdsmen--though timber harvesters and farmers are not uncommon. It
is a pastoral land, certainly. It seems odd that a place so
remarkably agrarian could have produced the prophecies and
theologies upon which the entire world now relies.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h2>Chapter Three</h2>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon counted his coins,
dropping the golden boxings one by one into the small chest on his
table. He still looked a bit stunned, as well he should have. Three
thousand boxings was a fabulous amount of money--far more than
Camon would earn in even a very good year. His closest cronies sat
at the table with him, ale--and laughter--flowing freely.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin sat in her corner, trying
to understand her feelings of dread. Three thousand boxings. The
Ministry should never have let such a sum go so quickly. Prelan
Arriev had seemed too cunning to be fooled with such ease.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon dropped another coin into
the chest. Vin couldn&#8217;t decide if he was being foolish or
clever by making such a display of wealth. Underworld crews worked
under a strict agreement--everyone received a cut of earnings in
proportion to their status in the group. While it was sometimes
tempting to kill the crewleader and take his money for yourself, a
successful leader created more wealth for everyone. Kill him
prematurely, and you would cut off future earnings--not to mention
earn the wrath of the other crewmembers.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Still, three thousand boxings.
. .that would be enough to tempt even the most logical thief. It
was all wrong.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>I have to get out of
here</i>, Vin decided. <i>Get away from Camon, and the lair, in
case something happens.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And yet. . .leave? By herself?
She&#8217;d never been alone before--she&#8217;d always had Reen.
He&#8217;d been the one to lead her from city to city, joining
different thieving crews. She loved solitude. But the thought of
being by herself, out in the city, horrified her. That was why
she&#8217;d never run away from Reen; that was why she&#8217;d
stayed with Camon.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She couldn&#8217;t go. But she
had to. She looked up from her corner, scanning the room. There
weren&#8217;t many people in the crew for whom she felt any sort of
attachment. Yet, there were a couple that she would be sorry to see
hurt, should the obligators actually move against the crew. A few
men who hadn&#8217;t tried to abuse her, or--in very rare
cases--who had actually shown her some measure of kindness.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Ulef was at the top of that
list. He wasn&#8217;t a friend, but he was the closest thing she
had now that Reen was gone. If he would go with her, then at least
she wouldn&#8217;t be alone.&#160; Cautiously, Vin stood and moved
along the side of the room to where Ulef sat drinking with some of
the other younger crewmembers.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She tugged on Ulef&#8217;s
sleeve. He turned toward her, only slightly drunk.
&#8220;Vin?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ulef,&#8221; she
whispered.&#160; &#8220;We need to go.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He frowned. &#8220;Go? Go
where?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Away,&#8221; Vin
whispered.&#160; &#8220;Out of here.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Now?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin nodded urgently.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Ulef glanced back at his
friends, who were chuckling amongst themselves, shooting suggestive
looks at Vin and Ulef.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Ulef flushed. &#8220;You want
to go somewhere, just you and I?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Not like that,&#8221;
Vin said. &#8220;Just. . .I need to leave the lair. And I
don&#8217;t want to be alone.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Ulef frowned. He leaned closer,
a slight stink of ale on his breath. &#8220;What is this about,
Vin?&#8221; he asked quietly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin paused. &#8220;I. . .think
something might happen, Ulef,&#8221; she whispered.
&#8220;Something with the obligators. I just don&#8217;t want to be
in the lair right now.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Ulef sat quietly for a moment.
&#8220;All right,&#8221; he finally said. &#8220;How long will this
take?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t
know,&#8221; Vin said. &#8220;Until evening, at least. But we have
to go. <i>Now.</i>&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He nodded slowly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Wait here for a
moment,&#8221; Vin whispered, turning. She shot a glance at Camon,
who was laughing at one of his own jokes. Then she quietly moved
through the ash-stained, smoky chamber into the lair&#8217;s back
room.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The crew&#8217;s general
sleeping quarters consisted of a simple, elongated corridor lined
with bedrolls. It was crowded and uncomfortable, but it was far
better than the cold alleyways she&#8217;d slept in during her
years traveling with Reen.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Alleyways that I might have
to get used to again,</i> she thought. She had survived them
before. She could do so again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She moved to her pallet, the
muffled sounds of men laughing and drinking sounding from the other
room. Vin knelt down, regarding her few possessions. If something
did happen to the crew, she wouldn&#8217;t be able to come back to
the lair. Ever. But, she couldn&#8217;t take the bedroll with her
now--it was far too obvious. That only left the small box that
contained her personal effects: a pebble from each city she&#8217;d
visited, the earring Reen said Vin&#8217;s mother had given her,
and a bit of obsidian the size of a large coin. It was chipped into
an irregular pattern--Reen had carried it as some kind of good luck
charm. It was the only thing he&#8217;d left behind when he&#8217;d
snuck away from the crew half a year before.&#160; Abandoning
her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Just like he always said he
would,</i> Vin told herself sternly. <i>I never thought he&#8217;d
actually go--and that&#8217;s exactly why he had to leave.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She gripped the bit of obsidian
in her hand, tucked the book into her overalls, and pocketed the
pebbles. The earring she put in her ear--it was a very simple,
steel thing.&#160; Little more than a stud, not even worth
stealing, which was why she didn&#8217;t fear leaving it in the
back room. Still, Vin had rarely worn it, for fear that the
ornamentation would make her look more feminine.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She had no money, but Reen had
taught her how to scavenge and beg. Both were difficult in the
Final Empire, especially in Luthadel, but she would find a way, if
she had to.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin left her box and bedroll,
slipping back out into the common room. Maybe she was
over-reacting--perhaps nothing would happen to the crew. But, if it
did. . .well, if there was one thing Reen had taught her, it was
how to protect her neck. Bringing Ulef was a good idea. He had
contacts in Luthadel--if something happened to Camon&#8217;s crew,
Ulef could probably get her and him jobs on--</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin froze just inside the main
room. Ulef wasn&#8217;t at the table where she had left him.
Instead, he stood furtively near the front of the room. Near the
bar. Near. . .Camon.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What is this!&#8221;
Camon stood, his face red as sunlight. He pushed his stool out of
the way, then lurched toward her, half drunk. &#8220;Running away?
Off to betray me to the Ministry, are you!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin dashed toward the stairwell
door, desperately scrambling around tables and past
crewmembers.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon&#8217;s hurled wooden
stool hit her square in the back, throwing her to the ground. Pain
flared between her shoulders; several crewmembers cried out as the
stool bounced off of her and thumped against the floorboards
nearby.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin lay in a daze.&#160; Then.
. .something within her-- something she knew of but didn&#8217;t
understand--gave her strength. Her head stopped swimming, her pain
becoming a focus. She climbed awkwardly to her feet.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon was there. He backhanded
her even as she stood. Her head snapped to the side from the blow,
twisting her neck so painfully that she barely felt herself hit the
floor again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon bent over, grabbing
her by the front of her shirt and pulling her up, raising his
fist.&#160; Vin didn&#8217;t pause to think or to speak--there was
only one thing to do. She used up all of her Luck in a single
furious effort, pushing against Camon, calming his fury.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon teetered. For a moment,
his eyes softened. He lowered her slightly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Then the anger returned to his
eyes. Hard. Terrifying.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Damn wench,&#8221; Camon
muttered, grabbing her by the shoulders and shaking her.
&#8220;That back-stabbing brother of yours never respected me, and
you&#8217;re the same. I was too easy on you both. Should have. . .
.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin tried to twist free, but
Camon&#8217;s grip was firm. She searched desperately for aid from
the other crewmembers--however, she knew what she would find.
Indifference. They turned away, their faces embarrassed, but not
concerned. Ulef still stood near Camon&#8217;s table, looking down
guiltily.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;In her mind, she thought she
heard a voice whispering to her. Reen&#8217;s Voice. <i>Fool!&#160;
Ruthlessness--it&#8217;s the most logical of emotions. You
don&#8217;t have any friends in the underworld. You&#8217;ll never
have any friends in the underworld!</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She renewed her struggles, but
Camon hit her again, knocking her to the ground. The blow stunned
her, and she gasped, breath knocked from her lungs.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Just endure,</i> she
thought, mind muddled. <i>He won&#8217;t kill me. He needs
me.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Yet, as she turned weakly, she
saw Camon looming above her in the caliginous room, drunken fury
showing in his face. She knew this time would be different--it
would be no simple beating. He thought that she intended to betray
him to the Ministry.&#160; He wasn&#8217;t in control.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;There was murder in his
eyes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Please!</i> Vin thought with
desperation, reaching for her Luck, trying to make it work. There
was no response. Luck, such as it was, had failed her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon bent down, muttering to
himself as he grabbed her by the shoulder. He raised an arm--his
meaty hand forming another fist, his muscles tensing, an angry bead
of sweat slipping off his chin and hitting her on the cheek.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;A few feet away, the stairwell
door shook, then burst open. Camon paused, arm upraised as he
glared toward the door and whatever unfortunate crewmember had
chosen such an inopportune moment to return to the lair.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin seized the distraction.
Ignoring the newcomer, she tried to shake herself free from
Camon&#8217;s grip, but she was too weak. Her face blazed from
where he&#8217;d hit her, and she tasted blood on her lip. Her
shoulder had been twisted awkwardly, and her side ached from where
she&#8217;d fallen. She clawed at Camon&#8217;s hand, but she
suddenly felt weak, her inner strength failing her just as her luck
had. Her pains suddenly seemed greater, more daunting, more. .
.demanding.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She turned toward the door
desperately. She was close--painfully close. She had nearly
escaped.&#160; Just a little farther. . . .</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Then she saw the man standing
quietly in the stairwell doorway. He was unfamiliar to her. Tall
and hawk-faced, he had light blonde hair and wore a relaxed
nobleman&#8217;s suit, his cloak hanging free. He was, perhaps, in
his mid thirties. He wore no hat, nor did he carry a dueling
cane.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And he looked very, very
angry.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What is this?&#8221;
Camon demanded. &#8220;Who are you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>How did he get by the
scouts. . . ?</i> Vin thought, struggling to get her wits back.
Pain. She could deal with pain. <i>The obligators. . .did they send
him?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The newcomer looked down at
Vin, and his expression softened slightly. Then he looked up at
Camon and his eyes grew dark.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon&#8217;s angry demands
were cut off as he was thrown backward as if had been punched by a
powerful force. His arm was ripped free from Vin&#8217;s shoulder,
and he toppled to the ground, causing the floorboards to shake.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The room fell quiet.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Have to get away,</i> Vin
thought, forcing herself up to her knees. Camon groaned in pain
from a few feet away, and Vin crawled away from him, slipping
beneath an unoccupied table. The lair had a hidden exit, a trap
door beside the far back wall. If she could crawl to it--</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Suddenly, Vin felt an
overwhelming peace. The emotion slammed into her like a sudden
weight, her emotions squished silent, as if crushed by a forceful
hand. Her fear puffed out like an extinguished candle, and even her
pain seemed unimportant.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She slowed, wondering why she
had been so worried. She stood up, pausing as she faced the trap
door. She breathed heavily, still a little dazed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Camon just tried to kill
me!</i> the logical part of her mind warned. <i>And someone else is
attacking the lair. I have to get away!</i> However, her emotions
didn&#8217;t match the logic. She felt. . .serene. Unworried. And
more than a little bit curious.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Someone had just used Luck on
her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She recognized it somehow, even
though she&#8217;d never felt it upon her before. She paused beside
the table, one hand on the wood, then slowly turned around. The
newcomer still stood in the stairwell doorway. He studied her with
a critical eye, then smiled in a disarming sort of way.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>What is going on?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The newcomer finally stepped
into the room. The rest of Camon&#8217;s crew remained sitting at
their tables. They looked surprised, but oddly unworried.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>He&#8217;s using Luck on
them all. But. . .how can he do it to so many at once?</i> Vin had
never been able to store up enough Luck to do more than give the
occasional, brief push.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;As the newcomer entered the
room, Vin could finally see that a second person stood in the
stairwell behind him. &#160;This second man was less imposing. He
was shorter, with a dark half-beard and close-cropped straight
hair. He also wore a nobleman&#8217;s suit, though his was less
sharply tailored.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;On the other side of the room,
Camon groaned and sat up, holding his head. He glanced at the
newcomers. &#8220;Master Dockson! Why, uh, well, this is a
surprise!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Indeed,&#8221; said the
shorter man--Dockson. Vin frowned, realizing she sensed a slight
familiarity to these men. She recognized them from somewhere.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>The Canton of Finance.&#160;
They were sitting in the waiting room when Camon and I
left.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon climbed to his feet,
studying the blonde newcomer. Camon looked down at the man&#8217;s
hands, both of which were lined with the strange, overlapping
scars. &#8220;By the Lord Ruler. . . .&#8221; Camon whispered.
&#8220;The Survivor of Hathsin!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin frowned. The title was
unfamiliar to her. Should she know this man? Her wounds still
throbbed despite the peace she felt, and her head was dizzy. She
leaned on the table for support, but did not sit.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Whoever this newcomer was,
Camon obviously thought him important. &#8220;Why, Master
Kelsier!&#8221; Camon sputtered. &#8220;This is a rare
honor!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The newcomer--Kelsier--shook
his head. &#8220;You know, I&#8217;m not really interested in
listening to you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon let out an
&#8220;urk&#8221; of pain as he was thrown backward again. Kelsier
made no obvious gesture to perform the feat. Yet, Camon collapsed
to the ground, as if shoved by some unseen force.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon fell quiet, and Kelsier
scanned the room. &#8220;The rest of you know who I am?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Many of the crewmembers
nodded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Good. I&#8217;ve come to
your lair because you, my friends, owe me a great debt.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The room was silent save for
Camon&#8217;s groans. Finally, one of the crewmen spoke. &#8220;We.
. .do, Master Kelsier?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Indeed you do. You see,
Master Dockson and I just saved your lives. Your rather incompetent
crewleader left the Ministry&#8217;s Canton of Finance about an
hour ago, returning directly to this safehouse. He was followed by
two Ministry scouts, one high-ranking prelan. . .and a single Steel
Inquisitor.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;No one spoke.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Oh, Lord. . . .</i>&#160;
Vin thought. She&#8217;d been right--she just hadn&#8217;t been
fast enough. If there was an Inquisitor--</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I dealt with the
Inquisitor,&#8221; Kelsier said. He paused, letting the implication
hang in the air. What kind of person could so lightly claim to have
&#8220;dealt&#8221; with an Inquisitor? Rumors said the creatures
were immortal, that they could see a man&#8217;s soul, and that
they were unmatched warriors.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I require payment for
services rendered,&#8221; Kelsier said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Camon didn&#8217;t get up this
time--he had fallen hard, and he was obviously disoriented. The
room remained still. Finally, Milev--the dark-skinned man who was
Camon&#8217;s second--scooped up the coffer of Ministry boxings and
dashed forward with it.&#160; He proffered it to Kelsier.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The money Camon got from
the Ministry,&#8221; Milev explained. &#8220;Three thousand
boxings.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Milev is so eager to please
him,</i> Vin thought. <i>This is more than just Luck--either that,
or it&#8217;s some sort of Luck I&#8217;ve never been able to
use.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier paused, then accepted
the coinchest. &#8220;And you are?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Milev, Master
Kelsier.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, Crewleader Milev,
I will consider this payment satisfactory--assuming you do one
other thing for me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Milev paused. &#8220;What would
that be?&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier nodded toward the
near-unconscious Camon. &#8220;Deal with him.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course,&#8221; Milev
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I want him to live,
Milev,&#8221; Kelsier said, holding up a finger. &#8220;But I
don&#8217;t want him to enjoy it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Milev nodded.
&#8220;We&#8217;ll make him a beggar. The Lord Ruler disapproves of
the profession--Camon won&#8217;t have an easy time of it here in
Luthadel.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>And Milev will dispose of
him anyway as soon as he thinks this Kelsier isn&#8217;t paying
attention.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Good,&#8221; Kelsier
said, then he opened the coinchest and began counting out some
golden boxings.&#160; &#8220;You&#8217;re a resourceful man, Milev.
Quick on your feet, and not as easily intimidated as the
others.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;ve had dealings
with Mistings before, Master Kelsier," Milev said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier nodded.
&#8220;Dox,&#8221; he said, addressing his companion, &#8220;where
were we going to have our meeting tonight?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I was thinking that we
should use Clubs&#8217; shop,&#8221; said the second man.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Hardly a neutral
location,&#8221; Kelsier said. &#8220;Especially if he decides not
to join us.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;True.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier looked to Milev.
&#8220;I&#8217;m planning a job in this area. It would be useful to
have the support of some locals.&#8221; He held out a pile of what
looked like a hundred boxings. &#8220;We&#8217;ll require use of
your safehouse for the evening. This can be arranged?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course,&#8221; Milev
said, taking the coins eagerly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Good,&#8221; Kelsier
said.&#160; &#8220;Now, get out.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Out?&#8221; Milev asked
hesitantly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; Kelsier
said.&#160; &#8220;Take your men--including your former leader--and
leave. I want to have a private conversation with Mistress
Vin.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The room grew silent again, and
Vin knew she wasn&#8217;t the only one wondering how Kelsier knew
her name.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, you heard
him!&#8221; Milev snapped. He waved for a group of thugs to go grab
Camon, then he shooed the rest of the crewmembers up the stairs.
Vin watched them go, growing apprehensive. This Kelsier was a
powerful man, and instinct told her that powerful men were
dangerous. Did he know of her Luck? Obviously--what other reason
would he have for singling her out?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>How is this Kelsier going to
try and use me?</i> she thought, rubbing her arm where she&#8217;d
hit the floor.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;By the way,
Milev,&#8221; Kelsier said idly. &#8220;When I say
&#8216;private,&#8217; I mean that I don&#8217;t want to be spied
on by the four men watching us through peek-holes behind the far
wall. Kindly take them up into the alley with you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Milev paled. &#8220;Of course,
Master Kelsier.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Good. And, in the
alleyway you&#8217;ll the find the two dead Ministry spies. Kindly
dispose of the corpses for us.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Milev nodded, turning.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And Milev,&#8221;
Kelsier added.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Milev turned back again.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;See that none of your
men betray us,&#8221; Kelsier said quietly. And Vin felt it
again--a renewed pressure on her emotions. &#8220;This crew already
has the eye of the Steel Ministry--do not make an enemy of me as
well.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Milev nodded sharply, then
disappeared into the stairwell, pulling the door closed behind him.
A few moments later, Vin heard footsteps from the peek-room, then
all was still. She was alone with a man who was--for some
reason--so singularly impressive that he could intimidate an entire
room full of cutthroats and thieves.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She eyed the bolt-door. Kelsier
was watching her. What would he do if she ran?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>He claims to have killed an
Inquisitor</i>, Vin thought. <i>And. . .he used Luck. I have to
stay, if just long enough to find out what he knows.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier&#8217;s smile deepened,
then finally he laughed. &#8220;That was <i>far</i> too much fun,
Dox.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The other man, the one Camon
had called Dockson, snorted and walked toward the front of the
room. Vin tensed, but he didn&#8217;t move toward her, instead
strolling to the bar.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You were insufferable
enough before, Kell,&#8221; Dockson said. &#8220;I don&#8217;t know
how I&#8217;m going to handle this new reputation of yours. At
least, I&#8217;m not sure how I&#8217;m going to handle it and
maintain a straight face.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You&#8217;re
jealous.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, that&#8217;s
it,&#8221; Dockson said. &#8220;I&#8217;m terribly jealous of your
ability to intimidate petty criminals. If it&#8217;s of any note to
you, I think you were too harsh on Camon.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier walked over and took a
seat at one of the room&#8217;s tables. His mirth darkened slightly
as he spoke. &#8220;You saw what he was doing to the
girl.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Actually, I
didn&#8217;t,&#8221; Dockson said dryly, rummaging through the
bar&#8217;s stores. &#8220;Someone was blocking the
doorway.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier shrugged.&#160;
&#8220;Look at her, Dox. The poor thing&#8217;s been beaten nearly
senseless. I don&#8217;t feel any sympathy for the man.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin remained where she was,
keeping watch on both men. As the tension of the moment grew
weaker, her wounds began to throb again. The blow between her
shoulder-blades--that would be a large bruise--and the slap to her
face burned as well. She was still a little dizzy.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier was watching her. Vin
clinched her teeth. Pain. She could deal with pain.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You need anything,
child?&#8221; Dockson asked. &#8220;A wet handkerchief for that
face, perhaps?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She didn&#8217;t respond,
instead remaining focused on Kelsier. <i>Come on. Tell me what you
want with me. Make your play.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dockson finally shrugged, then
ducked beneath the bar for a moment. He eventually came up with a
couple of bottles.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Anything good?&#8221;
Kelsier asked, turning.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What do you
think?&#8221; Dockson asked. &#8220;Even among thieves, Camon
isn&#8217;t exactly known for his refinement. I have socks worth
more than this wine.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier sighed. &#8220;Give me
a cup anyway.&#8221; Then he glanced back at Vin. &#8220;You want
anything?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin didn&#8217;t respond.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier smiled.
&#8220;Don&#8217;t worry--we&#8217;re far less frightening than
your friends think.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t think they
were her friends, Kell,&#8221; Dockson said from behind the
bar.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Good point,&#8221;
Kelsier said. &#8220;Regardless, child, you don&#8217;t have
anything to fear from us. Other than Dox&#8217;s breath.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dockson rolled his eyes.
&#8220;Or Kell&#8217;s jokes.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin stood quietly. She could
act weak, like she had with Camon, but instincts told her that
these men wouldn&#8217;t respond well to that tactic. So, she
remained where she was, assessing the situation.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The calmness fell upon her
again. It encouraged her to be at ease, to be trusting, to simply
do as the men were suggesting. . . .</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>No!</i> She stayed where she
was.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier raised an eyebrow.
&#8220;That&#8217;s unexpected.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221; Dockson
asked as he poured a cup of wine.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Nothing,&#8221; Kelsier
said, studying Vin.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You want a drink or not,
lass?&#8221; Dockson asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin said nothing. All her life,
as long as she could remember, she&#8217;d had her Luck. It made
her strong, and it gave her an edge over other thieves. It was
probably why she was still alive. Yet, all that time, she&#8217;d
never really known what it was or why she could use it. Logic and
instinct now told her the same thing--that she needed to find out
what this man knew.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;However he intended to use her,
whatever his plans, she needed to endure them. She had to find out
how he&#8217;d grown so powerful.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ale,&#8221; she finally
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Ale?&#8221; Kelsier
asked.&#160; &#8220;That&#8217;s it?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin nodded, watching him
carefully. &#8220;I like it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier rubbed his chin.
&#8220;We&#8217;ll have to work on that,&#8221; he said.
&#8220;Anyway, have a seat.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Hesitant, Vin walked over and
sat down opposite Kelsier at the small table. Her wounds throbbed,
but she couldn&#8217;t afford to show weakness. Weakness killed.
She had to pretend to ignore the pain. At least, sitting as she
was, her head cleared.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dockson joined them a moment
later, giving Kelsier a glass of wine and Vin her mug of ale. She
didn&#8217;t take a drink.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Who are you?&#8221; she
asked in a quiet voice.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier raised an eyebrow.
&#8220;You&#8217;re a blunt one, eh?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin didn&#8217;t reply.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier sighed. &#8220;So much
for my intriguing air of mystery.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dockson snorted quietly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier smiled. &#8220;My name
is Kelsier. I&#8217;m what you might call a crewleader--but I run a
crew that isn&#8217;t like any you&#8217;ve probably known. Men
like Camon, along with his crew, like to think of themselves as
predators, feeding off of the nobility and the various
organizations of the Ministry.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin shook her head.&#160;
&#8220;Not predators. Scavengers.&#8221; One would have thought,
perhaps, that so close to the Lord Ruler, such things as thieving
crews would not be able to exist.&#160; Yet, Reen had shown her
that the opposite was true--powerful, rich nobility congregated
around the Lord Ruler. And, where power and riches existed, so did
corruption--especially since the Lord Ruler tended to police his
nobility far less than he did the skaa. It had to do, apparently,
with his fondness for their ancestors.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Either way, thieving crews like
Camon&#8217;s were the rats who fed on the city&#8217;s corruption.
And, like rats, they were impossible to entirely
exterminate--especially in a city with the population of
Luthadel.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Scavengers,&#8221;
Kelsier said, smiling--apparently he did that a lot.
&#8220;That&#8217;s an appropriate description, Vin. Well, Dox and
I, we&#8217;re scavengers too. . .we&#8217;re just a higher quality
of scavenger. We&#8217;re more well-bred, you might say--or perhaps
just more ambitious.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She frowned.
&#8220;You&#8217;re noblemen?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Lord no,&#8221; Dockson
said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Or, at least,&#8221;
Kelsier said, &#8220;not full-blooded ones.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Half-breeds aren&#8217;t
supposed to exist,&#8221; Vin said carefully. &#8220;The Ministry
hunts them.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier raised an eyebrow.
&#8220;Half-breeds like you?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin felt a shock. <i>How. . .
?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Even the Steel Ministry
isn&#8217;t infallible, Vin,&#8221; Kelsier said. &#8220;If they
can miss you, then they can miss others.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin paused thoughtfully.
&#8220;Milev. He called you Mistings. Those are some kind of
Allomancer, right?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dockson glanced at Kelsier.
&#8220;She&#8217;s observant,&#8221; the shorter man said with an
appreciative nod.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Indeed,&#8221; Kelsier
agreed. &#8220;The man did call us Mistings, Vin--though the
appellation was a bit hasty, since neither Dox nor I are
technically Mistings. We do, however, associate with them quite a
bit.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin sat quietly for a moment,
sitting beneath the scrutiny of the two men. Allomancy. The
mystical power held by the nobility, granted to them by the Lord
Ruler some thousand years before as a reward for their loyalty. It
was basic Ministry doctrine--even a skaa like Vin knew that much.
The nobility had Allomancy and privilege because of their
ancestors; the skaa were punished for the same reason.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The truth was, however, that
she didn&#8217;t really know what Allomancy was. It had something
to do with fighting, she&#8217;d always assumed. One
&#8220;Misting&#8221;, as they were called, was said to be
dangerous enough to kill an entire thieving team. Yet, the skaa she
knew spoke of the power in whispered, uncertain tones. Before this
moment, she&#8217;d never even paused to consider the possibility
that it might simply be the same thing as her Luck.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Tell me, Vin,&#8221;
Kelsier said, leaning forward with interest. &#8220;Do you realize
what you did to that obligator in the Canton of Finance?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I used my Luck,&#8221;
Vin said quietly. &#8220;I use it to make people less
angry.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Or less
suspicious,&#8221; Kelsier said. &#8220;Easier to scam.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin nodded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier held up a finger.&#160;
&#8220;There are a lot of things you&#8217;re going to have to
learn.&#160; Techniques, rules, and exercises. One lesson, however,
cannot wait. <i>Never</i> use emotional Allomancy on a obligator.
They&#8217;re all trained to recognize when their passions are
being manipulated. Even the High Nobility are forbidden from
Pulling or Pushing the emotions of a obligator. You are what caused
that obligator to send for an Inquisitor.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Pray the creature never
catches your trail again, lass,&#8221; Dockson said quietly,
sipping his wine.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin paled. &#8220;You
didn&#8217;t kill the Inquisitor?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier shook his head.
&#8220;I just distracted him for a bit--which was quite dangerous
enough, I might add. Don&#8217;t worry, many of the rumors about
them aren&#8217;t true. Now that he&#8217;s lost your trail, he
won&#8217;t be able to find you again.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Most likely,&#8221;
Dockson said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin glanced at the shorter man
apprehensively.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Most likely,&#8221;
Kelsier agreed. &#8220;There are a lot of things we don&#8217;t
know about the Inquisitors--they don&#8217;t seem to follow the
normal rules. Those spikes through their eyes, for instance, should
kill them. Nothing I&#8217;ve learned about Allomancy has ever
provided an explanation for how those creatures keep living. If it
were only a regular Misting Seeker on your trail, we wouldn&#8217;t
need to worry. An Inquisitor. . .well, you&#8217;ll want to keep
your eyes open. Of course, you already seem pretty good at
that.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin sat uncomfortably for a
moment. Eventually, Kelsier nodded to her mug of ale. &#8220;You
aren&#8217;t drinking.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You might have slipped
something in it,&#8221; Vin said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, there was no need
for me to sneak something into your drink,&#8221; Kelsier said with
a smile, pulling an object out of his suit coat pocket.
&#8220;After all, you&#8217;re going to drink this vial of
mysterious liquid quite willingly.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;He set a small glass vial on
the tabletop. Vin frowned, regarding the liquid within. There was a
dark residue at its bottom. &#8220;What is it?&#8221; she
asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;If I told you, it
wouldn&#8217;t be mysterious,&#8221; Kelsier said with a smile.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dockson rolled his eyes.
&#8220;The vial is filled with an alcohol solution and some flakes
of metal, Vin.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Metal?&#8221; she asked
with a frown.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Two of the eight basic
Allomantic metals,&#8221; Kelsier said. &#8220;We need to do some
tests.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin eyed the vial.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier shrugged.&#160;
&#8220;You&#8217;ll have to drink it if you want to know any more
about this Luck of yours.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You drink half
first,&#8221; Vin said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier raised an eyebrow.
&#8220;A bit on the paranoid side, I see.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin didn&#8217;t respond.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Finally, he sighed, picking up
the vial pulling off the plug.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Shake it up
first,&#8221; Vin said. &#8220;So you get some of the
sediment.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier rolled his eyes, but
did as requested, shaking the vial, then downing half of its
contents. He sat it back on the table with a click.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin frowned. Then she eyed
Kelsier, who smiled. He knew that he had her. He had shown off his
power, had tempted her with it. <i>The only reason to be
subservient to those with power is so that you can learn to someday
take what they have.</i> Reen&#8217;s words.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin reached out and took the
vial, then she downed its contents. She sat, waiting for some
magical transformation or surge of power--or even signs of poison.
She felt nothing.<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>How. . .anticlimactic.</i>
She frowned, leaning back in her chair. Out of curiosity, she felt
at her Luck.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And felt her eyes widen in
shock.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was there, like a massive
golden hoard. A storage of power so incredible that it stretched
her understanding. Always before, she had needed to be a scrimp
with her Luck, holding it in reserve, using up morsels sparingly.
Now she felt like a starving woman invited to a high
nobleman&#8217;s feast. She sat, stunned, regarding the enormous
wealth within her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So,&#8221; Kelsier said
with a prodding voice. &#8220;Try it. Soothe me.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin reached out, tentatively
touching her newfound mass of Luck. She took a bit, and directed it
at Kelsier.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Good.&#8221; Kelsier
leaned forward eagerly. &#8220;But we already knew you could do
that. Now the real test, Vin. Can you go the other way? You can
dampen my emotions, but can you enflame them too?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin frowned. She&#8217;d never
used her Luck in such a way--she hadn&#8217;t even realized that
she could.&#160; Why was he so eager?<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Suspicious, Vin reached for her
source of Luck. As she did so, she noticed something interesting.
What she had first interpreted as one massive source of power was
actually two different sources of power. There were different types
of Luck.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Eight. He&#8217;d said there
were eight of them. But. . .what do the others do?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier was still waiting. Vin
reached to the second, unfamiliar source of Luck, doing as
she&#8217;d done before and directing it at him.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier&#8217;s smile deepened,
and he sat back, glancing at Dockson. &#8220;That&#8217;s it then.
She did it.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Dockson shook his head.
&#8220;To be honest, Kell, I&#8217;m not sure what to think. Having
one of you around was unsettling enough. Two, though. . .
.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin regarded them with
narrowed, dubious eyes. &#8220;Two what?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Even among the nobility,
Vin, Allomancy is modestly rare,&#8221; Kelsier said. &#8220;True,
it&#8217;s a hereditary skill, with most of its powerful lines
among the high nobility.&#160; However, breeding alone
doesn&#8217;t guarantee Allomantic strength.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Many high noblemen only
have access to a single Allomantic skill. People like that--those
who can only perform Allomancy in one of its eight basic
aspects--are called Mistings.&#160; Sometimes these abilities
appear in skaa--but only if that Skaa has noble blood in his or her
near ancestry. You can usually find one Misting in. . .oh, about
ten thousand mixed-breed skaa. The better, and closer, the noble
ancestry, the more likely the skaa is to be a Misting.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Who were your parents,
Vin?&#8221; Dockson asked. &#8220;Do you remember them?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I was raised by my
half-brother, Reen,&#8221; Vin said quietly, uncomfortable. These
were not things she discussed with others.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Did he speak of your
mother and father?&#8221; Dockson asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Occasionally,&#8221; she
admitted. &#8220;Reen said that our mother was a whore. Not out of
choice, but the underworld. . . .&#8221; She trailed off. Her
mother had tried to kill her, once, when she was very young. She
vaguely remembered the event. Reen had saved her.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What about your father,
Vin?&#8221; Dockson asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin looked up. &#8220;He is a
High Prelan in the Steel Ministry.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier whistled softly.
&#8220;Now <i>that&#8217;s</i> a slightly ironic breach of
duty.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Vin looked down at the table.
Finally, she reached over and took a healthy pull on her mug of
ale.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier smiled. &#8220;Most
ranking obligators in the Ministry are high noblemen. Your father
gave you rare a gift in that blood of yours."</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So. . .I&#8217;m one of
these Mistings you mentioned?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier shook his head.
&#8220;Actually, no. You see, this is what made you so interesting
to us, Vin. Mistings only have access to one Allomantic skill. You
just proved you have two. And, if you have access to at least two
of the eight, then you have access to the rest as well.
That&#8217;s the way it works--if you&#8217;re an Allomancer, you
either get one skill or you get them all.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier leaned forward.
&#8220;You, Vin, are what is generally called a Mistborn. Even
amongst the nobility, they&#8217;re incredibly rare. Amongst skaa.
. .well, let&#8217;s just say I&#8217;ve only met one other skaa
Mistborn in my entire life.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Somehow, the room seemed to
grow more quiet. More still. Vin stared at her mug with distracted,
uncomfortable eyes. <i>Mistborn</i>. She&#8217;d heard the stories,
of course. The legends.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier and Dockson sat
quietly, letting her think. Eventually, she spoke. &#8220;So. .
.what does this all mean?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier smiled. &#8220;It means
that you, Vin, are a very special person. You have a power that
most high noblemen envy. It is a power that, had you been born an
aristocrat, would have made you one of the most deadly and
influential people in all of the Final Empire.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Kelsier leaned forward again.
&#8220;But, you weren&#8217;t born an aristocrat. You&#8217;re not
noble, Vin. You don&#8217;t have to play by their rules--and that
makes you even <i>more</i> powerful.&#8221;</p>
<span style=
'font-size:14.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<h1>Sample Chapters of Alcatraz Versus the Evil Librarians</h1>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>(This is my middle
grade fantasy series, the first book of which was published by
Scholastic Press in October 2007. I&#8217;ve sold four books in the
series, and the second will be out October 2008.)</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>Link to: <a href=
"http://www.amazon.com/Alcatraz-Versus-Librarians-Brandon-Sanderson/dp/0439925509/ref=sr_1_1/103-4212574-7236658?ie=UTF8&amp;s=books&amp;qid=1178745464&amp;sr=1-1">
Amazon Page</a></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h2><span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'>Author&#8217;s
Foreword</span></h2>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I am not a good person.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Oh, I know what the stories say
about me. They call me Oculator Dramatus, Hero, Savior of the
Twelve Kingdoms. . . . Those, however, are just rumors. Some are
exaggerations; many are outright lies. The truth is far less
impressive.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;When Mr. Bagsworth first came
to me, suggesting that I write my autobiography, I was
hesitant.&#160; However, I soon realized that this was the perfect
opportunity to explain myself to the public.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;As I understand it, this book
will be published simultaneously in the Free Kingdoms and Inner
Libraria. This presents something of a problem for me, since I will
have to make the story understandable to people from both areas.
Those in the Free Kingdoms, for instance, might be unfamiliar with
things like bazookas, briefcases, and guns. However, those in
Libraria--or, the Hushlands, as they are often called--will likely
be unfamiliar with things like Oculators, Crystin, and the depth of
the Librarian conspiracy.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;To those of you in the Free
Kingdoms, I suggest that you find a reference book--there are many
that would do--that can explain unfamiliar terms to you. After all,
this book will be published as a biography in your lands, and so it
is not my purpose to teach you about the strange machines and
archaic weaponry of Libraria. My purpose is to show you the truth
about me, and to prove that I am not the hero that everyone says I
am.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;In the Hushlands--those
Librarian-controlled nations such as the United States, Canada, and
England--this book will be published as a work of fantasy. Do not
be fooled!&#160; This is no work of fiction, nor is my name really
&#8220;Brandon Sanderson&#8221;. Both are guises to hide the book
from Librarian agents. Unfortunately, even with these precautions,
I suspect that the Librarians will discover the book and ban it. In
that case, our Free Kingdom agents will have to sneak into
libraries and bookstores to put it on shelves. Count yourself lucky
if you&#8217;ve found one of these secret copies.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;For you Hushlanders, I know the
events of my life may seem wondrous and mysterious. I will do my
best to explain them, but please remember that my purpose is not to
entertain you.&#160; My purpose it to open your eyes to the
truth.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I know that in writing this I
shall make few friends in either world. People are never pleased
when you reveal that their beliefs are wrong.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;But, that is what I must do.
This is my story--the story of a selfish, contemptible fool.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The story of a coward.</p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h2>Chapter One</h2>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;So, there I was, tied to an
altar made from outdated encyclopedias, about to get sacrificed to
the dark powers by a cult of evil Librarians.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;As you might imagine, that sort
of situation can be quite disturbing. It does funny things to the
brain to be in such danger--in fact, it often makes a person pause
and reflect upon his life. If you&#8217;ve never faced such a
situation, then you&#8217;ll simply have to take my word. If, on
the other hand, you <i>have</i> faced such a situation, then you
are probably dead, and aren&#8217;t likely to be reading this.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;In my case, the moment of
impending death made me think about my parents. It was an odd
thought, since I hadn&#8217;t grown up with my parents. In fact, up
until my thirteenth birthday, I really only knew one thing about my
parents: that they had a twisted sense of humor.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Why do I say this, you ask?
Well, you see, my parents named me &#8216;Al.&#8217; In most cases,
this would be short for &#8216;Albert&#8217;, which is a fine name.
In fact, you have probably known an Albert or two in your lifetime,
and chances are that they were decent fellows.&#160; If they
weren&#8217;t, then it certainly wasn&#8217;t the name&#8217;s
fault.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;My name isn&#8217;t Albert.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8216;Al&#8217; also could be
short for &#8216;Alexander.&#8217; I wouldn&#8217;t have minded
this either, since Alexander is a great name. It sounds kind of
regal.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;My name isn&#8217;t
Alexander.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I&#8217;m certain that you can
think of other names &#8216;Al&#8217; might be short for. Alfonso
has a pleasant ring to it. Alan would also be acceptable, as would
have been Alfred--though I really don&#8217;t have an inclination
toward butlery.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;My name is not Alfonso, Alan,
or Alfred. Nor is it Alejandro, Alton, Aldris, or Alonzo.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;My name is Alcatraz.&#160;
Alcatraz Smedry. Now, some of you Free Kingdomers might be
impressed by my name. That&#8217;s wonderful for you, but I grew up
in the Hushlands--in the United States itself. I didn&#8217;t know
about Oculators or the like, though I did know about prisons.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And that was why I figured that
my parents <i>must</i> have had a twisted sense of humor. Why else
would they name their child after the most infamous prison in U.S.
history?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;On my thirteenth birthday, I
received a second confirmation that my parents were--indeed--cruel
people. That was the day when I unexpectedly received in the mail
the only inheritance that they had left me.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was a simple bag of
sand.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I stood at the door, looking
down at the unwrapped package in my hands, frowning as the postman
drove away. The package looked old--its string ties were frayed,
and its brown paper packaging was worn and faded. Inside of the
package, I found a box containing a simple note.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Alcatraz,</i> it read.
<i>Happy thirteenth birthday! Here is your inheritance, as
promised.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Love, Mom and Dad.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Underneath the note, I found
the bag of sand. It was small, perhaps the size of a fist, and was
filled with ordinary brown beach sand.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Now, my first inclination was
to think that the package was a joke. You would probably have
thought the same. One thing, however, made me pause. I set the box
down, then smoothed out its wrinkled packaging paper.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;One edge of the paper was
covered with wild scribbles--a little like those made by a person
trying to get the ink in a pen to flow. On the front there was
writing. It looked old and faded--almost illegible in places--and
yet it accurately spelled out my address. An address I&#8217;d only
been living at for eight months.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Impossible,</i> I
thought.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Then I went inside my house and
set the kitchen on fire.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Now, I warned you that I
wasn&#8217;t a good person. Those who knew me when I was young
would never have believed that one day <i>I</i> would be known as a
hero. &#8216;Heroic&#8217; just didn&#8217;t apply to me. Nor did
people use words like &#8216;nice&#8217;, or even
&#8216;friendly&#8217; to describe me. They might have used the
word &#8216;clever&#8217;, though I suspect that
&#8216;devious&#8217; may have been more correct.
&#8216;Destructive&#8217; was another common one that I heard,
though I didn&#8217;t care for it. (It wasn&#8217;t actually all
that accurate.)</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;No, people never said good
things about me. Good people don&#8217;t burn down kitchens.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Still holding the strange
package, I strode into my foster parents&#8217; house and wandered
toward the kitchen, lost in thought. It was a very nice kitchen,
modern looking with white wallpaper and lots of shiny chrome
appliances. Anyone entering it would immediately notice that this
was the kitchen of a person who took pride in their cooking
skills.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I set my package on the table,
then moved over to the kitchen stove. If you&#8217;re a Hushlander,
you would have thought I looked like a fairly normal American boy,
dressed in loose jeans and a T-shirt. I&#8217;ve been told I was a
handsome kid--and some even said that I had an &#8216;innocent
face&#8217;. I was not too tall, had dark brown hair, and was quite
skilled at breaking things.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Quite</i> skilled.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;When I was very young, kids
called me a klutz. I was always breaking things--plates, cameras,
chickens. It seemed inevitable that whatever I picked up, I would
end up dropping, cracking, or otherwise mixing up. Not exactly the
most inspiring talent a young man ever had, I know. However, I
generally tried to do my best despite it.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Just like I did this day. Still
thinking about the strange package, I filled a pot with
water.&#160; Next, I got out a few packs of instant ramen noodles.
I set them down, looking at the stove. It was a fancy, gas one with
real flames. Joan wouldn&#8217;t settle for electric.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Sometimes it was daunting,
knowing how easily I could break things. This one, simple curse
seemed to dominate my entire life. Perhaps I shouldn&#8217;t have
gone down to fix dinner. Perhaps I should simply have remained in
my room. But, what was I to do? Stay there all the time? Never go
out because I was worried about the things I <i>might</i> break? Of
course not.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I reached out and turned on the
gas burner.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;And, of course, the flames
<i>immediately</i> flared up around the sides of the pan, reaching
far higher than should have been possible. I quickly reached to
turn off the flames, but the knob broke off in my hand. I tried to
grab the pot and take it off of the stove. But, of course, the
handle broke off, leaving the pot itself on the burner. I stared at
the broken handle for a moment, then looked up at the flames. They
flickered, starting the drapes on fire. The fire gleefully began to
devour the cloth.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Well, so much for that,</i>
I thought with a sigh, tossing the broken handle over my shoulder.
I left the fire burning--once again, I feel I must remind you that
I&#8217;m not a very nice person--and picked up my strange package
as I walked out into the den.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;There, I pulled out the brown
wrapper from my &#8216;inheritance&#8217; box, flattening it
against the table with one hand and looking the stamps. One had a
picture of a woman wearing flight goggles, with an old-fashioned
airplane in the background behind her. All of the stamps looked
old--perhaps as old as I was. I turned on the computer and checked
a database of stamp publication dates, and found that I was
right.&#160; From the pictures on them, I could tell that they had
been printed thirteen years ago.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Someone had taken quite a bit
of effort to make it <i>seem</i> like my present had been packaged,
addressed, and stamped over a decade earlier. That, however, was
ridiculous.&#160; How would they have known where I&#8217;d be
living? During the last thirteen years, I&#8217;d gone through
dozens of sets of foster parents.&#160; Besides, my experience has
been that the number of stamps it takes to send a package increases
without warning or pattern. (The postage people are, I&#8217;m
convinced, quite sadistic in that regard.) There was no way someone
could have known, thirteen years ago, how much postage it would
cost to send a package in my day.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I shook my head, standing up
and tossing the &#8216;M&#8217; key from the computer keyboard into
the trash.&#160; I&#8217;d stopped trying to stick the keys back
on--they always fell off again anyway. I got the fire extinguisher
from the hall closet, then walked back into the kitchen, which was
now quite thoroughly billowing with smoke. I put the box and
extinguisher on the table, then picked up a broom, holding my
breath as I calmly knocked the tattered remnants of the drapes into
the sink.&#160; I turned on the water, then finally used the
extinguisher to blast the burning wallpaper and cabinets, also
putting out the stove.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The smoke alarm didn&#8217;t go
off, of course. You see, I&#8217;d broken <i>that</i> previously.
All I&#8217;d needed to do was rest my hand against its case for a
second, and it had fallen apart.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I didn&#8217;t open a window,
but did have the peace of mind to get a pair of pliers and twist
the stove&#8217;s gas gage off. Then, I glanced at the curtains,
smoldering as an ashen lump in the sink.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Well, that&#8217;s it,</i> I
thought, a bit frustrated. <i>Joan and Roy will never continue to
put up with me after this.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Perhaps you think I should have
felt ashamed. But, what was I supposed to do? Like I said--I
couldn&#8217;t simply just hide in my room all the time. Was I to
avoid living just because life for me was a little different than
it was for regular people?&#160; No. I had learned to deal with my
strange curse. I figured that others would simply have to do so as
well.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I heard a car in the driveway.
Finally realizing that the kitchen was still rank with smoke, I
opened the window and began using a towel to fan it out. My foster
mother--Joan--rushed into the kitchen a moment later. She stood,
horrified, looking at the fire damage.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I tossed aside the towel and
left without a word, going up to my room.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" align="center" style=
'text-align:center;line-height:200%'>#</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;That boy is a
disaster!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Joan&#8217;s voice drifted up
through the open window into my room. My foster parents were in the
study down on the first floor, their favorite place for
&#8216;quiet&#8217; conferences about me.&#160; Fortunately, one of
the first things that I&#8217;d broken in the house had been the
study&#8217;s window rollers, locking the windows themselves
permanently open so that I could listen in.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Now, Joan,&#8221; said a
consoling voice. That one belonged to Roy, my current foster
father.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I can&#8217;t take
it!&#8221; Joan sputtered. &#8220;He destroys everything he
touches!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;There was that word again.
&#8220;Destroy.&#8221; I felt my hair bristle in annoyance. <i>I
don&#8217;t destroy things,</i> I thought. <i>I break them.
They&#8217;re still there when I&#8217;m finished, they just
don&#8217;t work right anymore.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He means well,&#8221;
Roy said. &#8220;He&#8217;s a kind-hearted boy.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;First the washing
machine,&#8221; Joan sputtered. &#8220;Then the lawn mower.
&#160;Then the upstairs bath. Now the kitchen. All in less than a
year!&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He&#8217;s had a hard
life,&#8221; Roy said. &#8220;He just tries too hard--how would you
feel, being passed from family to family, never having a home. . .
?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, can you blame
people for getting rid of him?&#8221; Joan said.
&#8220;I--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;She was interrupted by a knock
on the front door. There was a moment of silence, and I imagined
what was going on between my foster parents. Joan was giving Roy
&#8220;The Look.&#8221;&#160; Usually, it was the husband who gave
&#8220;The Look,&#8221; insisting that I be sent away. Roy had
always been the soft one here, however. I heard his footsteps as he
went to answer the door.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Come in,&#8221; Roy
said, his voice faint, since he now stood in the entryway. I
remained lying in my bed. It was still early evening--the sun
hadn&#8217;t even set yet.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Mrs. Sheldon,&#8221; a
new voice said from below, acknowledging Joan. &#8220;I came as
soon as I heard about the accident.&#8221; It was a woman&#8217;s
voice, familiar to me. Businesslike, curt, and more than a little
condescending. I figured those were all good reasons why Miss
Fletcher wasn&#8217;t married.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Miss Fletcher,&#8221;
Joan said, faltering now that the time had come. They usually did.
&#8220;I&#8217;m. . .sorry to. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; Miss Fletcher
said. &#8220;You did well to last this long. I can arrange for the
boy to be taken tomorrow.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I closed my eyes, sighing
quietly. Joan and Roy had lasted quite long--longer, certainly,
than any of my other recent sets of foster parents. Eight months
was a valiant effort when taking care of <i>me</i> was concerned. I
felt a little twist in my stomach.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Where is the boy
now?&#8221; Miss Fletcher asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;He&#8217;s
upstairs.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I waited quietly. Miss Fletcher
knocked, but didn&#8217;t wait for my reply before pushing open the
door.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Miss Fletcher,&#8221; I
said. &#8220;You look lovely.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;It was a stretch. Miss
Fletcher--my personal caseworker--<i>might</i> have been a pretty
woman, had she not been wearing a pair of hideous, horn-rimmed
glasses. She perpetually kept her hair up in a bun that was only
slightly less tight than the dissatisfied line of her lips. She
wore a simple white blouse and a black, ankle-length skirt. For
her, it was a daring outfit--the shoes, after all, were maroon.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The kitchen,
Alcatraz?&#8221; Miss Fletcher asked. &#8220;Why the
kitchen?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It was an
accident,&#8221; I mumbled. &#8220;I was trying to do something
nice for my foster parents.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You decided that you
would be kind to Joan Sheldon--one of the city&#8217;s finest and
most well-renowned chefs--by burning down her kitchen?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I shrugged. &#8220;Just wanted
to fix dinner. I figured even <i>I</i> couldn&#8217;t mess up ramen
noodles.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Miss Fletcher snorted.&#160;
Finally, she walked into the room, shaking her head as she strolled
past my dresser. She poked my inheritance package with her index
finger, snorting quietly as she eyed the crumpled paper and worn
strings. Miss Fletcher had a thing about messiness. Finally, she
turned back to me. &#8220;We&#8217;re running out of families,
Smedry. The other couples are hearing rumors. Soon, there
won&#8217;t be any place left to send you.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I remained quiet, still lying
down.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Miss Fletcher sighed, folding
her arms and tapping her index finger against one arm. &#8220;You
realize, of course, that you are worthless.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Here we go,</i> I thought,
feeling sick. This was my least favorite part of the process. I
stared up at my ceiling.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You are fatherless and
motherless,&#8221; Miss Fletcher said, &#8220;a parasite upon the
system. You are a child who has been given a second, third, and now
<i>twenty-seventh</i> chance. And how have you received this
generosity? With indifference, disrespect, and
<i>destructiveness</i>!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I don&#8217;t
destroy,&#8221; I said quietly. &#8220;I break. There&#8217;s a
difference.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Miss Fletcher sniffed in
disgust. She left me then, walking out and pulling the door closed
with a snap. I heard her say goodbye to the Sheldons, promising
them that her assistant would arrive in the morning to deal with
me.&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>It&#8217;s too bad,</i> I
thought with a sigh. <i>Roy and Joan really were good people. They
would have made great parents.</i></p>
<span style=
'font-size:12.0pt;line-height:200%;font-family:"Times New Roman","serif"'><br clear="all"
style='page-break-before:always' /></span>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
<h2>Chapter Two</h2>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Now, you&#8217;re probably
wondering about the beginning of the previous chapter, with its
reference to evil Librarians, altars made from encyclopedias, and
its general feeling of &#8220;Oh, No! Alcatraz is going to be
sacrificed!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Before we get to this, let me
explain something about myself. I&#8217;ve been many things in my
life. Student.&#160; Spy. Sacrifice. Potted plant. However, at this
point, I&#8217;m something completely different from all of
those--something more frightening than any of them.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I&#8217;m a writer.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;You may have noticed that I
began my story with a quick, snappy scene of danger and
tension--but then quickly moved on to a more boring discussion of
my childhood. Well, that&#8217;s because I wanted to prove
something to you: that <i>I am not a nice person.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Would a nice person begin with
such an exciting scene, then make you wait almost the entire book
to read about it? Would a nice person write a book that exposes the
true nature of the world to all of you ignorant Hushlanders,
thereby forcing your lives into chaos? Would a nice person write a
book which proves that Alcatraz Smedry, the Free Kingdoms&#8217;
greatest hero, was just a mean-spirited adolescent?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Of course not.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I awoke grumpily that next
morning, annoyed by the sound of someone banging on my downstairs
door. I climbed out of bed, then threw on a bathrobe. Though the
clock read 10:00 a.m., I was still tired. I had stayed up late,
lost in thought. Then, Joan and Roy had to try and say goodbye. I
hadn&#8217;t opened my door to them. Better to get things over
without all that gushing.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;No, I was not happy to be
reawoken at 10:00 a.m.--or, actually, <i>any</i> a.m.. I yawned,
walking downstairs and pulling open the door, prepared to meet
whichever &#8216;assistant&#8217; Miss Fletcher had sent to
retrieve me. &#8220;Hell--&#8221; I said. (I hadn&#8217;t intended
to swear, but a boisterous voice cut me off before I could get to
the &#8220;o.&#8221;)</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Alcatraz, my boy!&#8221;
the man at the doorway exclaimed. &#8220;Happy Birthday!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;--O,&#8221; I said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;You shouldn&#8217;t
swear, my boy!&#8221; the man said, pushing his way into the house.
He was an older man who was dressed in a sharp black tuxedo, and
who wore a strange pair of red-tinted glasses. He was quite bald
save for a small bit of white hair running around the back of his
head, and this puffed out in an unkempt fashion. He wore a
similarly bushy white mustache, and he smiled quite broadly as he
turned to me, his face wrinkled but his eyes alight with
excitement.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, my boy?&#8221; he
said. &#8220;How does it feel to be thirteen?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The same as it did
yesterday,&#8221; I said, yawning. &#8220;When it was
<i>actually</i> my birthday. Miss Fletcher must have told you the
wrong date. I&#8217;m not packed yet--you&#8217;re going to have to
wait.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I began to walk tiredly toward
the stairs.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Wait,&#8221; the old man
said. &#8220;Your birthday was. . .yesterday?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I nodded. I&#8217;d never met
the man before, but Miss Fletcher had several assistants. I
didn&#8217;t know them all.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Rumbling Rawns!&#8221;
the man exclaimed. &#8220;I&#8217;m late!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;No,&#8221; I said,
climbing the stairs. &#8220;Actually, you&#8217;re early. As I
said, you&#8217;ll need to wait.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The old man rushed up the
stairs behind me.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I turned, frowning.&#160;
&#8220;You can wait downstairs.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Quickly, boy!&#8221; the
old man said. &#8220;I can&#8217;t wait. Soon, you&#8217;ll be
getting a package in the mail, and--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Stop. You know about the
package?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Of course I do, of
course I do. Don&#8217;t tell me it already came?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I nodded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Blistering
Brooks!&#8221; the old man exclaimed. &#8220;Where, lad? Where is
it!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I frowned. &#8220;Did Miss
Fletcher send it?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Miss Fletcher? Never
heard of her. Your parents sent that box, my boy!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>He&#8217;s never heard of
her?</i> I thought, realizing that I&#8217;d never verified the
man&#8217;s identity. <i>Great.&#160; I&#8217;ve let a lunatic into
the house.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Oh, blast!&#8221; the
old man said, reaching into his suit pocket and pulling out a pair
of yellow-tinted glasses. He quickly exchanged the light-red ones
for these, then looked around. &#8220;There!&#8221; he said
suddenly, rushing up the stairs, pushing past me in my
surprise.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Hey!&#8221; I called,
but he didn&#8217;t stop. I muttered quietly to myself, following.
The old man was surprisingly spry for one his age, and he reached
the door to my room in just a few heartbeats.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Is this your room, my
boy?&#8221; the old man asked. &#8220;Lots of footprints leading
here. What happened to the doorknob?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;It fell off. My first
night in the house.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;How odd,&#8221; the old
man said, pushing the door open. &#8220;Now, where&#8217;s that
box. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Look,&#8221; I said,
pausing in the doorway. &#8220;You have to leave. If you
don&#8217;t, I&#8217;m going to call the police.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The police? Why would
you do that?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Because you&#8217;re in
my house,&#8221; I said. &#8220;Well. . .my ex-house, at
least.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But, you let me in,
lad,&#8221; the old man pointed out.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I paused. &#8220;Well, now
I&#8217;m telling you to leave.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;But why? Don&#8217;t you
recognize me, my boy?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I raised an eyebrow.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I&#8217;m your
grandfather, lad! Leavenworth Smedry, Oculator Dramatus.
Don&#8217;t tell me you don&#8217;t remember me--I was there when
you were born!&#8221;<br />
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I blinked. Then frowned. Then
cocked my head to the side. &#8220;You were there. . . ?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes, yes,&#8221; the old
man said. &#8220;Thirteen years ago! You haven&#8217;t seen me
since, of course.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;And I&#8217;m supposed
to remember you?&#8221; I said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well, certainly! We have
excellent memories, we Smedries. Now, about that box. . .
.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Grandfather?</i>&#160; The
man had to, of course, be lying. <i>I don&#8217;t even have any
parents. Why would I have a grandfather?</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Now, looking back, I realize
that this was a silly thought. Everybody has a grandfather--two of
them, actually. Just because you haven&#8217;t seen them,
doesn&#8217;t mean they don&#8217;t exist. In that way,
grandfathers are kind of like kangaroos.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Either way, I most certainly
<i>should</i> have called the police on this elderly intruder. He
has been the main source of all my problems over the last five
years.&#160; Unfortunately, I didn&#8217;t throw him out. Instead,
I just watched him put away his yellow-tinted spectacles,
retrieving the reddish-tinted ones again. Then, he finally spotted
the box on my dresser, scribbled-on brown paper still sitting
beside it. The old man rushed over eagerly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;<i>You</i> sent
it,&#8221; I accused. &#8220;Why did you use thirteen-year old
stamps? And, why take such pains to make the box look
old?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Leavenworth didn&#8217;t
answer. He reached into the box, taking out the note with an oddly
reverent touch. He read it, smiling fondly, then looked up at
me.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So, where is it?&#8221;
Leavenworth asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Where is
what?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The inheritance,
lad!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;In the box,&#8221; I
said, pointing at the package.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;There isn&#8217;t
anything in here but the note.&#8221;&#160;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What?&#8221; I said,
walking over. Indeed, the box was empty. The bag of sand was
gone.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What did you do with
it?&#8221; I asked.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;With what?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The bag of sand,&#8221;
I said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The old man breathed out in
awe. &#8220;So, it really came?&#8221; he whispered, eyes wide.
&#8220;There was actually a bag of sand in this box?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I nodded slowly.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What color was the sand,
lad?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Um. . .sandy?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Galloping
Gemmells!&#8221; Leavenworth exclaimed. &#8220;I&#8217;m too late!
They must have gotten here before me. &#160;Quickly, lad.
Who&#8217;s been in this room since you received the
box?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Nobody,&#8221; I said.
By this point, as you can imagine, I was growing a little
frustrated and increasingly confused. Not to mention hungry, and
still a bit tired. And a little sore from gym class the previous
week--but that wasn&#8217;t exactly all that relevant, was it?</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Nobody?&#8221;
Leavenworth repeated. &#8220;Nobody else has been in this
room?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Nobody,&#8221; I
snapped.&#160; &#8220;Nobody at all.&#8221; Except. . . . I
frowned. &#8220;Except Miss Fletcher.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Who <i>is</i> this Miss
Fletcher you keep mentioning, lad?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I shrugged. &#8220;My
caseworker.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;What does she look
like?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Glasses,&#8221; I
said.&#160; &#8220;Snobbish face. Usually has her hair in a
bun.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;The glasses,&#8221;
Leavenworth said slowly. &#8220;Did they have. . .horn
rims?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Usually.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Hyperventilating
Hobbs!&#8221; Leavenworth exclaimed. &#8220;A Librarian! Quickly,
lad, we have to go!&#160; Get dressed; I&#8217;ll go steal some
food from your foster parents!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Wait!&#8221; I said, but
Leavenworth had already scrambled from the room, moving with a
sudden urgency.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I stood, dumbfounded.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Miss Fletcher?</i> I
thought. <i>Take the inheritance? That&#8217;s stupid. Why would
she want a silly bag of sand?</i> I shook my head, uncertain what
to think. Now, I wasn&#8217;t an easily-confused young
man--however, insanity has a way of confusing even the most
unconfusable. Finally, I just walked over to my dresser. Getting
dressed, at least, seemed like a good idea. I threw on a pair of
jeans, a T-shirt, and my favorite green jacket. Lightweight and
rainproof, it bore no symbols or pictures.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;As I finished, Leavenworth
rushed back into my bedroom, carrying two of Roy&#8217;s extra
briefcases. I noticed a leaf of lettuce sticking halfway out of
one, while the other seemed to be leaking a bit of catsup.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Here!&#8221; Leavenworth
said, handing me the lettuce briefcase. &#8220;I packed us lunches.
No telling how long it will be before we can stop for
food!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I raised the briefcase,
frowning. &#8220;You packed lunches inside of
briefcases?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;They&#8217;ll look less
suspicious that way. We have to fit in! Now, let&#8217;s get
moving. The Librarians could already be working on that
sand.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So?&#8221; I said.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;So?&#8221; the old man
exclaimed. &#8220;Lad, with those sands, the Librarians could
destroy kingdoms, overthrow cultures, dominate the world! We need
to get them back. We&#8217;ll have to strike quickly, and possibly
at great peril to our lives. But, that&#8217;s the Smedry
way!&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I lowered the briefcase.
&#8220;If you say so.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Before we leave, I need
to know what our resources are. What&#8217;s your Talent,
lad?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I frowned.
&#8220;Talent?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Yes,&#8221; Leavenworth
said. &#8220;Every Smedry has a Talent. What is yours?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Uh. . .playing the
oboe?&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;This is no time for
jokes, lad!&#8221; Leavenworth said. &#8220;This is serious! If we
don&#8217;t get that sand back. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Well,&#8221; I said,
sighing. &#8220;I&#8217;m also pretty good at breaking
things.&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Leavenworth froze.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;<i>Maybe I shouldn&#8217;t play
with the old man,</i> I thought, feeling guilty. <i>He may be a
loon, but that&#8217;s no reason to make fun of him.</i></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Breaking things?&#8221;
Leavenworth said, sounding awed. &#8220;So it&#8217;s true. Why,
such a Talent hasn&#8217;t been seen in centuries. . . .&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;Look,&#8221; I said,
raising my hands. &#8220;I was just joking around. I didn&#8217;t
mean--&#8221;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#8220;I knew it!&#8221;
Leavenworth said eagerly. &#8220;Yes, yes, this improves our
chances! Come, lad, we have to get moving.&#8221; Leavenworth
turned and left the room again, carrying his briefcase and rushing
eagerly down the stairs.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I sighed, following the old
man, intending to close the door on him. However, when I reached
the doorway, I paused, looking out. Leavenworth waved toward me
eagerly, standing on the doorstep in his little tuxedo.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;There was a car parked on the
curb. An old car. Now, when you read the words &#8216;old
car,&#8217; you likely think of a beat-up or rusted vehicle that
barely runs. A car that is old, kind of in the same way that
cassette tapes are old.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;This was not such a car. It was
not old like cassette tapes are old--it wasn&#8217;t even old like
records are old. No, this car was old like Beethoven is old. Or, at
least, so it seemed. To me--and, likely, to most of you living in
the Hushlands--the car looked like an antique. Kind of like a Model
T.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Now, that was an assumption on
my part. I was actually wrong about the car&#8217;s age. Grandpa
Leavenworth had obtained this car only one year before, and it was
still quite new. (Though, admittedly, it had a silimatic engine
based on Free Kingdoms technology, and had only been disguised to
look like an American car.)</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;The point is that many times,
the first thing a person presumes about something--or someone--is
inaccurate. Or, at the very least, incomplete. Take the young
Alcatraz Smedry, for instance. After reading my story up to this
point, you have probably made some assumptions. Perhaps
you&#8217;re--despite my best efforts--feeling a bit of sympathy
for me. After all, orphans usually make very sympathetic
heroes.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Perhaps you think that my habit
of using sarcasm was simply a method of hiding my insecurity.
Perhaps you&#8217;ve decided that I wasn&#8217;t a cruel boy, just
a very confused one. Perhaps you&#8217;ve decided, despite my
feigned indifference, I didn&#8217;t <i>like</i> breaking
things.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Obviously, you are a person of
very poor judgment. I would ask you to kindly refrain from drawing
conclusions that I don&#8217;t explicitly tell you to make.
That&#8217;s a very bad habit, and it makes authors grumpy.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;I was none of those things. I
was simply a mean boy who didn&#8217;t really care whether or not
he burned down kitchens. And, that mean boy was the one who stood
on the doorstep, watching Grandpa Smedry leave.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Now, <i>perhaps</i> I&#8217;ll
admit that I felt just a little bit of longing. A. . .wishfulness,
you might say. Getting a package that claimed to be from my parents
had made me remember days back when--before I realized how foolish
I was being--I had yearned to know my real parents. Days when I had
longed to find someone who <i>had</i> to love me, if only because
they were related to me.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Fortunately, I had grown past
that age. My moment of weakness passed quickly, and I slammed the
door closed and locked old man outside. Then I went to the kitchen
to get some breakfast.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;That, however, is when someone
drew a gun on me.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style='line-height:200%'>&#160;</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>
